The values that eventually led Ethiopians to secure victory over colonial power at the battle of Adwa should further be maintained and handed down to future generations, say pertinent stakeholders. Unity, nationalism and patriotism are among the major values present generation has emulated as it has been witnessed in the construction of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) and other development fronts, they point out. The victory has remained inspirational for Ethiopians to work together for peace, unity, sovereignty and prosperity, stresses Association of Ethiopian Patriots President Lij Daniel Jote Mesfin in an interview with The Ethiopian Herald in connection with the 122nd Adwa anniversary. "Ethiopia is the only country in the world which defeated highly armed colonial power within a day. This glamorous victory would remain in the hearts and minds of millions of Ethiopians forever. Now, the youth should take the victory of Adwa as symbol for sustaining peace, stability and prosperity." The President has urged parents, schools and other pertinent stakeholders to collaborate in informing the young generation about the massive sacrifice of our forefathers/forefathers paid in Adwa in defending their country's independence. Daniel Alemshet, Department Head of History and Heritage Management at Axum University, for his part said that though Ethiopians had outdated weaponry, they had deep national feeling and patriotism which helped them earn the victory. "This value is very important to motivate present and future generations in their fight against poverty and backwardness." "Before the battle of Adwa, there was wrong perception that white-men couldn't be defeated by black-men. But Ethiopians have shown the whole world that they could defeat whites colonialists and defend their independence," he stated, adding "Adwa victory should be remembered as an emblem of unity and strength of Ethiopians, and should be scaled up in the effort of realizing development endeavors." Ethiopians should take important lessons from the victory that linguistic, religious political and cultural differences are natural among societies, and would not harm sovereignty and territorial integrity, according to him. Daniel goes to say that the youths should make peace, stability and development their priority. The battle of Adwa was fought between Ethiopians and Italian aggressor in 1896. Documents show that the colonial forces were well-armed, trained and paid ones, while the Ethiopian side had been unsalaried personnel equipped with traditional weaponry. The immediate cause of the war was article 17 of the Wuchale treaty signed in 1889 in a place called Yisma Nigus, South Wollo of Amhara State. Regarding Ethiopia's foreign dealings, the article says Ethiopia must forge foreign relations through Italy while the Amharic one had been stated with phrase "can use". Menelik II repudiated the article first, and then officially denounced the whole treaty, historical documents show.