Government's inability to contain public debt as well as overspending crippled Namibia's economy to "unknown levels" during the past three years from 2015. This was revealed in a global report published by the Bertelsmann Stiftung on Transformation Index of countries which looked at governance, economic performance, political stability and the effectiveness of democracies in various countries. The report stated that Namibia's current economic performance had deteriorated to hitherto unknown levels. Poor economic performance in the country's economy was attributed to the decline in world market prices for many of Namibia's primary exports (such as uranium), a devastating drought experienced in the country over the past three years, and government's overspending, amongst others. "The fragile economic situation was further exacerbated by earlier government overspending," the report said. Poor performance in the economy led to an increase in unemployment and retrenchment in, for example, the construction industry and retail sector, mainly along the Angolan border. The report linked weaker economic performance to government's overspending for the past two years, and the significant budgetary cuts that saw a lot of government capital projects being put on hold. This also resulted in massive job losses in key economic sectors such as the construction industry and the wholesale, retail and trade sectors. The report says government has not been able to maintain the debt level projected in the 2016/17 budget of less than 37% of GDP. The debt-to-GDP ratio did not only exceed the projected government revenue of N$57,8 billion, but for the first time exceeded the "non-interest government expenditure of N$61,1 billion. Interest on government debt increased by over N$1,6 billion (from N$3,13 billion in 2015/16 to N$4,88 billion) or 8,5% of estimated government revenue, "while a return of N$2,9 billion on the Sacu common revenue pool showed that this important income had declined". The report also linked poor economic performance to a lack of investment caused by a number of limiting factors, including existing legislation such as the Namibia Investment Promotion Act, the Business and Intellectual Property Authority Act and the planned New Equitable Economic Empowerment Framework (Neeef). Such laws, the report stated, remain a hindrance to investors in the country as it authorises government to "limit foreign involvement in certain sectors of industry and resource extraction (such as uranium) to avoid external control". "The private sector, including business associations, considered government's intervention as damaging to the investment climate and tantamount to forced nationalisation. While government has increased efforts to attract foreign investment, the local context rarely lives up to the expectations created by government," the report stated. In addition, the Bertelsmann report also attributed poor economic performance to government's inability to effectively implement economic transformation projects outlined in developmental blueprints such as the National Development Plans (NDPs) and the Harambee Prosperity Plan (HPP), which was introduced by Hage Geingob shortly after being sworn in as President. It further claimed that while Geingob has promised a lot, his Presidency has delivered little to date. The report says that under Geingob's administration, the country's economy has worsened, with noticeable government overspending, a bloated public service with overlapping responsibilities, and increased borrowing.