Can Zimbabwe's Chevrons spoil it for Ireland in an ICC Cricket World Cup qualifier on the eve of St Patrick's Day? The Chevrons date their old rivals at Harare Sports Club tomorrow in their first match of the Super Six stage after finishing top in Group B. The Irish were second in Group A which was topped by the West Indies. But with crucial points at stake in the fight for a berth for the 2019 World Cup in England and Wales, Zimbabwe all-rounder Sean Williams yesterday reckoned the Irish are always difficult when the St Patrick's Day is on sight. St Patrick's Day, which will be celebrated on Saturday, is held in observance of the death of St Patrick, the patron saint of Ireland. It began as a religious feast day in the 17th century and has since evolved into a variety of festivals across the globe celebrating Irish culture with parades, special foods, music, dancing, and a whole lot of green. St Patrick's Day holds lots of good memories for most of the Irish cricket fans as they have enjoyed some of their landmark successes on the day. It was on St Patrick's Day when the Irish posted their first and most famous win over a full member when they shocked Pakistan at the Sabina Park in the 2007 ICC Cricket World Cup. Two days before, on March 15 2007, they had forced a big draw against Zimbabwe after bowling out the Chevrons for 221 in defence of their modest score of 221 /9 at the same tournament. They also had one of their big wins over Zimbabwe at the 2014 World T20 in Bangladesh on St Patrick's Day when they coasted to a three-wicket win to complicate life for the Chevrons. But Williams, a veteran of many battles against the Irish, yesterday said the home team was aware of the buzz around St Patrick's Day. "We can't wait to start playing our Super Six games. Obviously Ireland will be tough on St Patrick's Day, but we are looking to win every game from now until the end. "There is no doubt in our minds that we are playing to win no matter what and we are looking forward to be taking part in the 2019 World Cup. "It's always a tough game between Ireland and Zimbabwe. I think in 2015 World Cup you saw that, in 2007 World Cup there was also a tight game and in 2015 a tight series against us as well. "You know, they do have the privilege of playing county cricket, but that's not an excuse for us not to beat them. We have quality players in our team and it's just a matter of making better decisions more often and we win the game," said Williams. The all-rounder, who has just recovered from a finger injury, played his first game of the tournament in Monday's thrilling draw against Scotland at Queens Sports Club. Zimbabwe will carry three points into the Super Six and they have bright chances of grabbing one of the two tickets available to the 2019 World Cup. But they will also have to work their way against West Indies and United Arab Emirates in the other Super Six matches next week. Williams made a passionate appeal to the Harare fans to come in numbers and spur them on in the remaining games. "The spirit among the players is massive. It's really good. I think we had a couple of wake-up calls in Bulawayo, it brought everyone together and it was good to see the crowds. "It has been awesome, we haven't seen that for many many years and hopefully at Harare Sports Club we can see that again. I think having the crowds supporting us is a massive help. "It ends up not being 11 men playing, it ends up being 5 000 men playing against 11. So it's huge for us to have that, so we are looking forward to that," said Williams.