The current Ethio-China bilateral relation is a role model to the South-South cooperation, Chinese Ambassador to Ethiopia Tan Jian underscored. As strategic and comprehensive partner of Ethiopia, China firmly supports Ethiopia's industrialization development in both agriculture and industry sector, he said. Since 2001, China has been contributing to Ethiopia's development plans through sending agricultural instructors in the program of China Agricultural Technical Vocational Education, besides to the commitment of Chinese companies in the construction of industrial parks, railways and other infrastructural development, according to him. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the Second international Agro-industry Investment Forum, the Ambassador said that China calls itself developing country, and the key areas it has been working with Ethiopia are how to develop and reduce the level of poverty, ways to upgrading to the middle income economies, investment and industrialization are among others. "No doubt free trade is good. But, if trade is not handled hand in hand with investment and industrialization, developing countries will remain as raw material and commodity providers at a very low price at the global value chain. This is of course, not fair. The developing countries should intensify their integration with the global value chain and move up." China firmly supports the industrialization process of developing countries. Industrialization plays an important role in eliminating poverty and promoting sustainable development. There is growing consensus on the need for the renewed efforts to facilitate sustainable industrialization as one of the main drivers of economic growth and structural transformation, the Ambassador added. As part of the support to such development in the developing countries, China has contributed 20 million USD to the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) during the period 2013-2016. For the period 2017 to 2021, China will make an additional 24 million. With the new approach called Program for Country Partnership, UNIDO currently focuses on exploring new series models based on investment promotion. China supports UNIDO to conduct Programme for Countries Cooperation pilots in Ethiopia and other African countries with the contribution of 18 million USD for the first and Second International Agro-industry Investment Forums. He also said that the most important of all, China is implementing the belt and road initiative. Observing the principles of openness, inclusiveness, transparency guided by the ideas of planning together, building together and benefiting together, it has been working to achieve policy, infrastructural trade, financing and people to people connectivity with the objective of building a community with a shared benefits and humanity.