Today is Good Friday that marks the beginning of Easter and Kenyans have been assured of security. The National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) has also launched a country-wide campaign to sensitise public transport operators, travellers and motorists on road safety. At the Coast, which is popular with holidaymakers, a special team has been formed to patrol beaches, airports, the Likoni ferry crossing and other favourite spots. Coast regional coordinator Bernard Leparmarai said special focus has been put on Lamu and Tana River counties, which were hit by insecurity wave last year. HOTEL BOOKINGS Speaking to the Nation, Mr Leparmarai assured Kenyans and international tourists that adequate security has been put in place. "We understand that thousands of revellers will flock our region, thus we have increased the number of police officers in all the social places," he said. Officers from the General Service Unit, regular and tourist police units as well as those from the Kenya Wildlife Service and Kenya Maritime Authority have combined efforts to secure the region. The assurance came as hotels in the region reported a rise in bookings from local and international visitors. Some of the establishments are already fully booked as holidaymakers trickle in to the resort towns of Diani and Mombasa. POLICE POST Mombasa County commissioner Evans Achoki said a police post will be erected at Jomo Kenyatta Beach, which is expected to be frequented by both foreign and local tourists. Mr Achoki said other beaches including Mombasa, Shelly in Likoni and Nyali will be secured. "We have also deployed more security officers in the county as we are expecting more visitors than any other county in the region. We will have adequate security measures during this festive season and beyond," Mr Achoki added. Mr Achoki spoke after meeting deputy county commissioners and security teams from the six counties in the region. He was accompanied by Mombasa Police Commander Johnston Ipara, Administration Police Commander Nelson Masengeli and Mombasa County Inspectorate boss Mohammed Amir. ACCIDENTS Mr Achoki said at the Likoni crossing, armed police officers will be deployed to help control thousands of ferry users. Mr Samuel Musumba, who is in-charge of Road Safety Strategies at NTSA, said the agency will ensure there are no deaths on the roads during festivities. The official noted that last year during Easter, 37 road accident deaths were reported. "In this cause, we have partnered with the Red Cross Society of Kenya, Matatu Owners Association and Nairobi County Council," he said. "Eighty per cent of accidents on our roads are caused by the involved people's behaviour. "We thus want to influence them to ensure everyone acts civilly on the road. We never take joy in arresting anyone, but conditions force us to," Mr Musumba said. SAFETY And in Rift Valley, officers from various police units have teamed up to ensure the region is safe during the holiday. Tourist sites in Nakuru and Narok counties such as Maasai Mara and Lake Nakuru National Park are among the preferred holiday destinations. Rift Valley Regional coordinator Mongo Chimwaga and Nakuru County Police Commander Hassan Barua on Thursday said security personnel will patrol towns and tourist areas to ensure no criminal is allowed to cause havoc. "We have formed a multiagency security team, which will deal with crime and terrorism during the festive season in the region," Mr Chimwaga said. In Nakuru, more officers have been deployed on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway and other busy routes to control traffic. "We will position plain-clothed officers in strategic points and also put breathalysers to ensure no accidents occur," Mr Barua told the Nation. He appealed to residents to volunteer information when they come across suspicious people. Additional reporting by Brian Okinda