Unionised Workers at the Copperbelt University are disappointed management announced the date for reopening the University without addressing the many issues affecting the institution among demands that Prof. Naison Ngoma is removed. The union representative have said the announcement by the Copperbelt University Management to reopen the Copperbelt University on the 25th March 2018 amidst many unresolved issues was ill-timed and as usual without consultation with the stakeholder unions. "For instance, the vote of no confidence in Prof. Naison Ngoma has been trivialised by the Minister of Higher Education stating that Prof. Naison Ngoma will not be removed as lecturers and other workers are just demonising him for no good reason. This statement is extremely disappointing to the workers who have provided sufficient evidence of his incompetence and maladministration in the dossier submitted to the Minister of Higher Education" on of the union representative said. The workers at the Copperbelt University have insisted and remain resolved not to perform their normal duties for as long as Prof. Naison Ngoma is forced on them. "It is therefore strange that the Copperbelt University Management and the Minister of Higher Education could allow the opening of the institution as the returning students' reception and settling into campus will be negatively affected due to the current industrial unrest at the Copperbelt University" they added. The Unions have further accused Prof. Naison Ngoma that he selfishly upgraded his economy air ticket to that of business class in the amount of $ 3,360 (K33, 600.00) using Copperbelt University finances during his medical trip to India. They said their members will remain committed to continue with normal duties immediately on condition that Prof. Naison Ngoma is removed as Vice Chancellor of the Copperbelt University and that Irregular suspensions are lifted and full salaries for unionised workers placed on half salaries illegally is restored.