Adwa is a watershed in the history of Africa and a paramount indication of modern Ethiopians' strong unity with ample lessons that should clearly be known and emulated by contemporary generation. Few pre-colonial Africans had attempted to defend their land from expansionists. However, it was Ethiopia that successfully defeated colonialists. The rational behind is: their unity despite differences in lingustic, cultural and other factors. Despite the age-long cultural and political structure of the country, Ethiopia during that time was recovering from the ills of Zemene Mesafent (Era of the princes). Hence, grievances and competitions for power were the peculiar character of the time. But when foreign aggressor risked their sovereignty, they put the differences aside and had stood together for their common cause. So comments Scholars The Ethiopian Herald approached recently in connection with the 122th victory of Adwa. Adowa has several meanings for Ethiopians as well as for Africans: In times that almost all Africans were subjugated by white's supremacy, Ethiopians had been the only people that successfully resisted them, asserts Professor Mitiku Haile, a researcher and lecturer at Mekele University. Adowa was a new historic chapter that clearly showed to the world that black people were not inferior, he adds. This victory was also the result of Ethiopians' strong unity under the leadership of Menelik II, he underscores. This greatness of Ethiopians had given a bitter lesson to European colonizers while it increased Africans and other opressed people's confidence as to the fact that it was possible to defeat white colonial powers, he says. The legacy of Adwa is still manifest as Ethiopians are struggling and securing their economic freedom, he indicates. Cultural freedom is the other great success that we Ethiopians have maintained as a result of the victory, he says, adding that this further be consolidated to overcome the daunting impacts of globalization. As all Ethiopians fought and won the war, present generation should further work hard together to achieve the national vision. Adane Alemayehu, Political Science and International Relations lecturer at Addis Ababa university, seconds Prof. Mitiku's view. He says: "Adwa is a victory that sent a shock wave to the colonizers while it had given a glimmer of hope to the oppressed ones. In addition to repulsing colonizers, Adowa had also intensified the unification of Ethiopia into the central government, he claimed, adding a political breakdown that prevailed since Zemene Mesafent was welded owing to the victory of Adowa. Samuel Negash is an Assistant Professor at the Department of History at AAU. He believes that Adwa victory was not only to Ethiopians and Africans. It had ignited all freedom loving ones and people who opposed anti-colonial rule to deepen their fights. The unity had been the main driving force which gave upper hand to the people, he stresses, concluding as the lessons that generation has left, particularly the strong unity, should be taken sooner than later.