Ethiopia in its more than 3,000 years history has fought many battles with foreign colonizers. Most of those bloody wars were completed by the victory of Ethiopians. It has defeated several foreign invaders such as Ottoman Turkey, Egyptians, Italians and others in various battle fields, most of them undertaken in the present day Northern Ethiopia and Eritrea. Our gallant forefathers have subdued colonizers and invaders in battle fronts of Dogali, Kufit, Sahati, Gundet and Gurae to their knees. But the most applauded victory ever recorded against European colonizers took place in the northern part of Ethiopia, Tigray state, in the battle of Adwa on 2 March 1896. In that battle, Ethiopians from different corner of the country, ethnic and religious background flocked to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of their beloved nation. Men and women have paid immense sacrifice to defeat the Italian modern army in daylight. Due to their indomitable patriotism, Ethiopians became the only black people who entitled their independence. Many Ethiopian heroes and heroines who fought in the battle of Adwa have written their name in history colorfully. Among them, the then King of kings of Ethiopia, Emperor Menelik, his wife Empress Taitu Betul, Ras Alula Abenega, Abajifar and other patriots could be named. As military strategists recommend, intelligence is highly crucial in battle fields. Because it helps you to understand in what capacity and situation your enemy is. Thus, the Ethiopian army which defeated the Italian colonial army had invaluable information about the European colonizers. In spying the enemy, Bashay Awalom Haregot has played very crucial role. But who is Bashay Awalom? What was his role? Awalom was born in northern part of Ethiopia, Tigray state, in a town known as Enticho. According to the book published on his biography and works entitled Bashay Awalom and the History of Ethiopia, Awalom was born from poor family. He was wise and courageous starting from his childhood time. His cautious personality has helped him to be very important person in the battle of Adwa. He was spy and double agent who made glorious history to his country. When Emperor Menelik had planned to confront the invading army in Adwa, Awalom was recommended to the king, by Ras Alula to spy the enemy camp. Being fluent Italian speaker, Awalom got the King's trust to take the huge responsibility. Thus, he started his task that he observed the enemies overall situation. He gained trust of General Baratirie that he able to gather invaluable information which was very important for the Ethiopians. He was insider in the invaders' camp that he regularly used to report what he was happening there to Emperor Menelik, Ras Alula and other Ethiopian officials. His first task was convincing Ras Sebhat and Dejach Hagos Teferi to escape from the Italian camp. The operation was accomplished successfully. Another very important task Awalom accomplished was that he deceived the Italians that Menelik had run out of provisions and already started heading to Addis Ababa. General Baraterie believed Bashay Awalom and waged his assault on Sunday 2 March 1896 early in the morning. During the bloody war, Bashay Awalom gave the invaders' wrong directions in the mountainous Adwa battle fronts. On the other hand, Bashay informed Menelik about the ammunition, number of army and provisions of the Italians. Hence, the Ethiopians have prepared to face their bitter foe properly and wisely. In the eve of 1 march, General Baratieri saw on his binoculars Menelik's tent being pulled down from its camp. This confirmed what Awalom had told him. Then he ordered his army to hunt the Ethiopian army from the back, which his disastrous mistake. What Baratieri did not know was that the Ethiopians were stationed in his backyard to encircle him. He finally realized that he was fully encircled by the Ethiopian and he understood that he had no way to escape. Finally, Baratierie and other Italians were killed with their thousands of soldiers and the battle was completed by victorious Ethiopians. General Albertoni and thousands of his troops were surrendered. The battle lasts for only one day. The colorful victory was disseminated all over the world and the Ethiopians were considered as symbol of resistance. In this historic victory, the role of Bashay Awalom was extremely massive that every generation would remember forever. He will be remembered equally with Emperor Menelik, Ras Alula, Emperess Taytu and other gallant forefathers who brought that remarkable victory.