One of Nigeria's outstanding creative agencies, Noah's Ark Communications Limited, has concluded plans to celebrate its 10th year of excellent creativity in April. Its Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Lanre Adisa, described the achievement as a product of favour and immense support received from clients, who have remained a strong foundation for the company's performance since inception. Adisa singled out some clients for believing in the agency, noting that such belief has translated into huge gains for the brands, especially Peak Milk team for giving the agency the wing to fly at the beginning with the agency's first brief. He stressed that such opportunities contributed in no small measure to what the agency has achieved till date. He also mentioned the Tolaram Group, manufacturers of Indomie Noodles, for entrusting the brand in the agency's care, and not leaving out other clients like Airtel, Three Crowns, Nokia, Kwese TV, SFH, Heritage Bank and Hypo among others. He did not forget past and present management of the agency for their contributions in making the agency what it is today. "Just last year, one of our campaigns for Airtel won an Epica Gold in Germany," Adisa noted. "We have also won several awards both locally and internationally in those intervening years. This is as a result of the dedication and passion of staff and management of our company. It is not a solo effort. Rather, we did it collectively. I owe it all to members of the team who spend most of their time trying to deliver value and creative ingenuity to our esteemed clients. We will continue to push the boundary to ensure that all our clients get the best." Also, the agency's Executive Creative Director, Mr. Abolaji Alausa, described the last 10 years as highly eventful and rewarding for the agency. According to him, within that short time the agency has succeeded in establishing a strong footprint in the creative terrain through the supremacy of its ideas and quality of works delivered to the clients. Meanwhile, as part of activities marking the celebration of the milestone, a novelty match has been put together with Noah's Ark team to trade tackles with AAAN, the preeminent trade association for Nigeria's advertising industry. Also, a renowned author and advertising guru from Germany, Thomas Kolster, would be on ground to deliver a lecture on 'Goodvertising - Your Voice and Work Matter.' There will also be a roundtable discussion featuring industry experts and thought leaders after the keynote lecture. A workshop to be anchored by Thomas Kolster for the agency and its clients holds on April 5, 2018, at Radisson Blu, Ikeja, GRA, Lagos while the keynote lecture is slated for April 6, 2018 at Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Island, Lagos.