On 24 March at 1 Eloff in down town, Joburg Khuli Chana will be joined on stage by top African artists Bongo Maffin, Patoranking, DJ Maphorisa, Sho Madjozi and more at one of the biggest African festivals to take place - One Source Live. Khuli Chana told us about his part in African creativity and his role as The Dragon / superhero for the One Source Live campaign: What does African art and African creativity mean to you? African art & creativity represents a mouthpiece for the voiceless, a science of peace, a yearning for freedom, a signal of non-violence, a spirit of "Botho" (togetherness). One that is pure and original to its root. African creativity also means finding new ways to redefine and define how the world sees Africa as a whole. As you know, we (Africans) are generally viewed as inferior to the Western world so it is very important for us to find a voice of our own and embrace who we are and where we come from, without any fear or embarrassment, using our creativity & art as a tool of communication that in turn promotes peace across the globe. Tell us about the One Source Live movement and your part in it? OSL is a "party with a purpose." The whole aim is to redefine the existing concepts about African creativity and art as well as how the world views us through music, fashion, photography and art in general. My role is that of a Dragon, a powerful legendary creature that spits fire. Now as you know I'm in the music industry and my legendary power essentially lies in my voice that spits "fire" into the rhythms and rhymes I rap on - so my role essentially is to spread the power of African art and creativity through music as I have been doing all along, just on a larger scale this time around in partnership with the brand. What can we expect from you on Saturday, 24 March? On Saturday, 24 March at the festival, what you can expect is really a buffet of art. I will be curating the main stage (music) and my performance will be collaborative driven with a 20+ piece band, directed by the world renowned MD, Hlubi Kwebulana, where we will be bringing out the heavyweights of African music that have collaborated with me. The crowd can expect to be blown away by acts such as: Patoranking, Da L.E.S, JR, Nothsi, Morafe, Parlotones, MDB (my latest signing) and many other big acts that will come out as a surprise on the day to rock the set with me. So I urge everyone to come out there and come experience a mind-blowing tech filled production. It will essentially be a festival of colour, celebrating African creativity! Your role as a superhero / revolutionary? As previously mentioned, my role as a superhero is to use my voice (as a tool) to spit fire into the African creative industry so much that the fire essentially becomes the power that ultimately burns down all the barriers that have been holding African creatives from expressing themselves fully without holding back. Mine is through the power I possess, which is my voice that is translated into a song, that will become the celebratory soundtrack to the "freedom" we will experience upon limitless expression of our ideologies and beliefs through the arts. Your life in five worlds? Father, son, brother, mentor and leader. Being 'absolute' and what it means... Being Absolute means never losing sight of where you come from and who you are. Essentially being grounded by the positive tools and culture you have been taught by your elders. Being original and authentic to your inner-self. That for me represents someone that is not easily shakeable- that's being Absolute... Neither here nor there, you're consciously aware of your surroundings and the stage of life or career you find yourself in and most importantly, embracing every moment.TICKET INFORMATION FOR ONE SOURCE LIVE: Ticket prices are R250 (early bird), R290 (General Access) and VIP table bookings will be available starting at R6000. Channel24 is in partnership with One Source Live 2018. Source: Supplied