Kampala — A couple of months ago, the Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) produced its survey showing that between 2012 and 2017, the number of people living in poverty increased from 19% to 27%. I think these studies obscure, rather than highlight the actual problem of Uganda. Our country should aim at structural transformation, not poverty reduction. Making peasants earn more is not a solution to Uganda (and Africa's) economic backwardness. There is no country in the world where the majority of people depend on agriculture for a livelihood, which is rich. But that is a debate for another day. For now, it is intriguing that critics of government are relying on UBOS statistics as evidence that poverty is increasing in Uganda. Previously they dismissed them as propaganda insisting that we can use our eyes to measure poverty. As someone who has always defended Uganda's economic growth story, I have been a subject of attack. Critics have been mocking me, asking what happened to the "rosy picture" of Uganda's poverty situation that I have "always painted." Yet UBOS figures actually prove the point that economic growth is critical for poverty reduction. For example, over the last five years, Uganda's growth has slowed down from an average of 7.4% between 2001 and 2010 to an average of 3.9% between 2012 and 2016. The more important point, however, is that most people grossly misunderstand the challenge of economic development. For this to occur, a country needs to sustain GDP growth over a very long period of time, usually generations. Economists and statisticians use the "rule of 72". This rule says that if an economy (or anything else under measurement) grew at an annual average rate of 1%, it would double every 72 years. If it grew at an annual average of 7%, it would double every ten years. It is not accurate but gives us a good idea. Now 7% is about the highest rate of growth any country has ever enjoyed in history. Of course some outliers like South Korea did 9.4% between 1960 and 1990 and China 10.2% between 1980 and 2010 among a few others. I tend to remove from the sample countries that have relied on natural resources to grow because they are enjoying God's (or nature's) bounty. Equally, I remove city-states like Hong Kong and Singapore because, lacking a hinterland, they did not have a peasantry to transform from agriculture to industry. Let us assume a country had a per capita income of $150 as Uganda did in 1986. Let us assume its per capita income grows at a supersonic speed of 7% per annum. This country would reach $300 after ten years, $600 after twenty years and $1,200 after 30 years i.e. it would still be a poor country. It would take 70 years to reach a per capita income of $19,200 - which is the lower rungs of rich countries. Uganda's per capita income growth has been made worse by a very high rate of population growth. Remember that per capita income growth is calculated by subtracting the population growth rate from GDP growth rate. From 1986 to 2016, Uganda's GDP grew at an annual average of 6.74% while its population grew at 3.2%, giving us a per capita income growth of 3.5%. Now it may be surprising to many that no country in Europe ever achieved this over 30 years, except West Germany between 1950 and 1980, which did 3.8%. Let me give another example: the USA has the second highest per capita income of any country with a hinterland - after Norway. Note that I have eliminated city-states like Singapore, Luxembourg and Hong Kong, and mineral rich countries like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Brunei and the United Arab Emirates from the sample. The USA's per capita income grew at an annual average rate of 2% from 1900 to 2000. So, Uganda's per capita income growth record is good. The fast growth economies of East Asia performed much better than this between 1960 and 1990. Combined, their annual average rate of growth of their per capita income was 5.6%. That difference of 2.1% between them and Uganda is huge when compounded over three decades. Uganda would have achieved similar figures if its population grew at 1% per annum. Yet I do not think population is the problem. I will discuss the value of a larger population another day. The Nobel laureate in economics, Michael Spence, did a study of all economies of the world from 1955 to 2005 to find out how many countries sustained an annual average growth in GDP at 7% and above for 30 years. He found only 13, which he calls the "elite club." In doing 6.74% between 1986 and 2015, Uganda was the 17th fastest growing economy in the world. If you remove mineral rich countries from the sample, Uganda becomes ninth in the world, first in Africa. So why are urban Ugandans angry when their country has been doing this well? The paradox of economic development is that as growth picks apace and poverty begins reducing, people feel poorer. Why? Growth begins in cities where a few enterprising individuals create businesses. These attract people from rural areas to partake in the opportunities. But the number of immigrants into the cities is always higher than available opportunities, leading to destitution and slums. Yet people who come into cities (even when living in slums) do better than those in villages. Urban poverty is therefore a sign of vitality and social change. UBOS figures prove this point. For example the number of people living in poverty around Kampala is 5.9% and its surrounding Wakiso district is only 7.5%. This is much lower than 11.5% in the richest region of Ankole or Karamoja, which is 60%. So why is poverty felt much more deeply in cities where people are better off than in villages where they are worse off? It is because people in cities are more exposed and therefore aspirational. They see extreme wealth, which they compare with their own lives. This makes them feel left behind. When urban people complain about poverty, they are referring to relative poverty, not absolute poverty. Therefore the belief that excellent economic performance will create a happy population is an illusion. Those with knowledge of history know that in Europe, this transformation created a lot of anger. Indeed, it led to the development of radical ideologies and movements such as communism, socialism, anarchism and nihilism. Uganda is no exception. ****