South Africa-based Zimbabwean gospel artiste Vincent Honzeri is taking gospel music to another level with his international alternative rock gospel album titled "Trans- formed". The album is already topping radio charts in South Africa barely two months after its release. Speaking in an interview, Honzeri said he is ecstatic about his progress and is looking forward to take his brand to the next level. "I am really happy that people are enjoying my music and my hard work is finally paying off. I started music at a very young age learning from my best friend Zerubbabel Mavengawenyu, who is very passionate about music. It was not an easy road and I wanted to quit sometimes but I thank God I did not because now I seeing positive results. I will keep on going and take my career to the next level," said Honzeri. The seven-track album was produced by Captain Blu at Paro Works Studios in Durban, South Africa and has songs "I Belong", "I Love You", "You Are The One", "Invincible", "Heart of Mine", "Transformed" and "Blessings". Honzeri released the single "You Are The One" last year in December at Mbokodo FM and has since done a radio tour and gigs. "My single gave me confidence to drop the whole album because of the positive feedback I received. 'Transformed\ is now being played at local radio stations and I am getting bookings and calls for gigs. Things seem to be going in the right direction and I thank God for that," he said. Honzeri collaborated with hip-hop superstar Jimmie Maleta on a track titled "Invincible", which encourages people to work hard and believe in themselves to be successful despite their backgrounds. "It was amazing to work with this determined young man. I listened to the whole album and I must say it is a masterpiece. "Vincent is a very talented musician and I hope to work with him again in the future," said Maleta. Honzeri encouraged fellow gospel musicians to keep on making music and support each other. "I have a desire to see my music positively impacting on individuals, families and communities at large. I encourage gospel musicians to keep up the good work and support each other because gospel music is a genre that is here to stay," said Honzeri.