Emma Okonji Customers to Uber Taxi in Nigeria have continued to commend the transport company for the evolving and cutting-edge technology it introduced into metropolitan transport system. They said the technology and safety tips of Uber have helped to improve the overall experience of passengers. Olawale Olatokunbo, who works as a Safety Officer by day and moonlights as a fashion stylist at night, said: "The nature of my job as a stylist means that I have to move around quite frequently at night, especially if it's for example, awards season. I need something that is reliable, affordable and safe - and for me the Uber app contains all of those elements." Aside Olatokunbo, some other customers who testified to Uber's technology, said the technology has opened up new means of economic and business opportunities for many millennials in Nigeria. Giving details of some of its safety tips, the transport company in a statement, said it would continue to furnish riders with the best safety tips and guide on how best to make maximum use of its app for improved customer experience. According to Uber, riders should always take the time to review the safety features available to them in the app. It's important for them to remember that Uber rides can only be requested through the Uber app, so users should never accept street hail solicitations from those claiming to be with Uber "When riders are ready to request a ride, it is important for them to avoid spending unnecessary time outside alone with their phone in their hand. Instead, it best for them to wait indoors until the app shows that their driver has arrived. It also advised that riders must know their customers for safety reasons. "When a driver accepts a rider's request, the rider is able to see the drivers first name, photo, license plate number, type of vehicle as well as the vehicle colour. Riders are able to see this from within the app itself - on the map. The rider should always make sure that those match before they enter the vehicle and ensure they ask for the drivers name when they open the door. In a case where the inside of the car is dark, riders are encouraged to politely ask the driver to switch on the inner light to help confirm identity," Uber said. The statement further said Uber's technology has made it possible for all trips to be tracked using GPS. While en route the rider is able to monitor their own trip in the app as well as share their Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA) with their loved ones. This will help friends and family keep track of where they are on the trip and they can do this without even downloading the Uber app. Uber has In-app Help tool designed to help riders get a prompt response to their queries in the shortest time possible. The support system can be accessed by navigating to the "Help" section on the menu, which helps riders and driver-partners alike to communicate their concerns they might have during a trip and get an instant response.