Intangible heritages such as indigenous knowledge systems are the primary underpinnings that bring forth the most remarkable tangible heritages such as the Rock-Hewn Churches of Lalibela and Obelisks Axum into existence. That is why many experts believe preserving intangible heritages is nothing less than preserving ones' identity. But doing so is a daunting task, they argue. From the recently celebrated Adwa Victory to the Geda system, Ethiopia's intangible heritages are as worth telling and important as the tangible ones. Within intangible heritages, there are tangible benefits that a given country cannot afford to lose. It is through intangible heritages that the identity of people is constructed, says Henok Seyoum, a travel journalist. "Particularly, for countries that are mosaics of cultural diversity and intuitive wisdom, it is unthinkable to maintain their original identity without preserving these heritages that made us who we are as a people." All goes down to values and knowledge of a society which is pretty much an integral part of intangible heritages. While more attention is attached to tangible heritages, the conservation of intangible heritages has not received appropriate attention, he adds. The primary focus of the nation should neither be registering its heritages in UNESCO nor attracting tourists. Rather, it should target on passing on values and national identity to the upcoming generations, as to him. Besides its eccentric tangible ones, all Ethiopia's intangible heritages are nothing short of a miracle. Though some are inscribed by UNESCO at different times, there is also an urgent call for much to be done to preserve these heritages on the face of globalization and ever changing and dynamic world, Henok stresses. And instilling the assets and values of these heritages on the mindset of Ethiopians proves most effective way to keep such heritages. Kalleab Belachew is an expert in the tourism sector. He states that Ethiopia stands shoulder high when it comes to intangible heritages potential and possess special place in the world of heritages. "Having three UNESCO registered intangible heritages and some others in the waiting lists; the country is home to precious intangible values that are yet to be assessed," he adds. Keeping and magnifying intangible heritages would make a great difference in the tourism industry. The country has enormous human values that require thorough study and registration; he says adding that promoting such heritages will bring layers of positive impact on the tourism industry. It is through exploiting the values of intangible heritages that a country can preserve them. Identification and registration of these heritages should also come first, as to him. Despite little improvements conserving intangible heritages needs comprehensive and inclusive strategic plan as intangible and tangible heritages are interrelated. "Perhaps, had we been able to preserve the architectural skills of our forefathers, we would have built other Lalibla-like churches in numbers," Kalabe says. Ethiopia has rich potential in terms of intangible heritages in the Horn of Africa given the country maintained its independence and social fabric. This is undesirable evidence that cultures and other parts of the intangible heritages are unique and typical of Ethiopians. Tangible and intangible heritages are two sides of same coins, says Kalabe. Relatively speaking conservation mechanisms pales into insignificance as compared to the damage caused on intangible heritages. Once endangered and lost, it proves difficult to preserve and restore them. Getu Assefa, Culture Program Officer at UNESCO for his part says that the Organization is helping the country technically in the implementation of the global convention stipulated to protect and promote world intangible heritages. The country is well placed in the implementation process though more efforts are required to enrich the heritages and use them as sources of income. Dr. Kassaye Bigashew, a historian from Addis Ababa University says that collaboration, partnership and delegation among different bodies are what it takes to preserve intangible heritages. Yet compared to the threats, the conservation efforts have not been enough. "In order to conserve, there must be full-fledged registration of the heritages nationally. It is futile to put in place conservation works without exactly knowing what our heritages are." Ethiopia has countless intangible cultural heritages. So far a number of heritages are registered but much needs to be done. Particularly, at the heart of such effort should be enhancing the awareness of the people itself feel responsible for promoting cultural heritages, adds Dr. Kassaye. Authority for Research and Conservation of Cultural Heritage General Director Yonas Desta told journalists recently that intangible cultural heritages are what give the country a peculiar and unique identity. That is the way to make the society have a true and original character of its own,the very important thing is to create ownership among the community. He further noted that there is nothing rewarding more than community-based intervention in preserving these heritages. Registering them in the global organ is not an end by itself; it requires preserving them which the Authority is doing. In what could be an important step, the Heritage Authority has already prepared Cultural Heritage and Conservators Registry and Professional Licensing Directives.