Ndiaye brings 25 years of experience as an African affairs expert and accomplished senior policy and business strategist The Initiative for Global Development (IGD) announced today the appointment of Leila Ndiaye to the position of Executive Vice-President of the Washington-based network of African and global business leaders who are committed to advancing sustainable development and inclusive growth through business investment. Ndiaye, a native of Côte d'Ivoire and dual citizen of Senegal, will be responsible for driving the strategic direction for IGD's programming and policy engagements, overseeing the growth of the Frontier Leader Network, and building strategic alliances with key stakeholders to advance organizational priorities. With 25 years of experience as an African affairs expert and accomplished senior policy and business strategist, Ndiaye has a proven track record in policy design and implementation at the highest level of African governments and the private sector. "Leila Ndiaye joins IGD at a time of when the organization is experiencing tremendous growth and impact in strengthening the private sector and boosting private investment on the African continent," said Dr. Mima S. Nedelcovych. "Her vision and deep experience and connections will position IGD to be a leader in igniting innovation and action to fuel Africa's economic progress." Prior to joining IGD, she served as the Senior Director of Policy for African Affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. In that position, she developed, promoted and executed the US-Africa Business Center's program of work relating to trade policy and investment between the United States and African countries. She initiated and managed the US-ECOWAS Business Initiative and spearheaded the Chamber's program in Western and Central Sub-Saharan Africa, from Angola to Mauritania. Previously, she worked with the government of Côte d'Ivoire as special adviser to the former Head of State, where she advised the Head of State on a range of policy, national security and economic issues to ensure that all duties were carried out in the best interest of the country as a whole. Ndiaye is an Advisor to McLarty Associates, where she advises clients on trade and investment in West Africa. McLarty Associates is an international strategic advisory firm headquartered in Washington, DC, that delivers diplomatic solutions and advises many emerging companies venturing abroad. Earlier in her career, Ndiaye held positions in the lobbying arena with Bayh, Connaughton, Fernsteinhem and Malone, law firm of former Senator Birch Bayh, in Washington, D.C. where she developed and managed the Africa portfolio and at the World Bank as a consultant. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce presented Ms. Ndiaye with the "US-Africa Business Center Outstanding Leaders' Award 2018" in recognition of her exemplary leadership in US-Africa relations. She is a recipient of the 2016 Excellence Award by the Women Ambassadors Foundation in Washington DC and was nominated in 2008 as one of the 50 most influential people of Côte d'Ivoire by the magazine l'Intelligent d'Abidjan and received the same year the Women's Private Sector Initiative Award in Côte d'Ivoire. In 1990, she was the first Rotary Ambassadorial Scholar from Côte d'Ivoire to South Africa during apartheid. Leila Ndiaye is a member of the African Leadership Network, a membership community of the most dynamic and influential new-generation leaders in Africa. Leila Ndiaye holds a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations from the School of International Service (SIS), at The American University in Washington DC, earned a Master of Arts in Diplomacy with merit from the Diplomatic Academy of London at the University of Westminster, and a PhD degree in International Relations and Diplomacy, from the Centre d'Etudes Diplomatiques et Stratégiques (CEDS), Paris.