Women's are art by themselves. They are created by the mighty creator in a way to attract male counterparts, and to care children more than fathers do--researches on the latter state that women have biologically evolved over human history to be alluring to babies. Women are not only art. They are also artists. This is witnessed worldwide. Be it in the form of visual arts or in other spheres of arts, women have showed their competitiveness. The old thoughts of considering them as inferior to men have been reversed--tribute to their hard work and talent. With multiple responsibilities, such as taking care of the welfare of their babies, many of them have proven their talent in the art area as well. Thus, it is safe to say that they have also been evolving as glamorous artists. Artist Senafekesh Zeleke, is one of these Ethiopian women artists, who has been demonstrating her awe-inspiring artistic works. She has also been going through a continuous storm of artistic changes. And this wave is not still stabilized. She is pursuing her interest by using straight and curved lines together with circular shapes to express her deep internal feelings and perspectives. This take painting style may longer time. "How long?" It depends on her commitment. She has already started the journey. Formerly, she used to paint three dimensional realistic painting styles. Her paint "To the market" is good example in this regard. She used to paint in a semi-realistic representative and processional style. "Doka" and "Sunset" for instance. Since recent time, she has totally engaged in painting style by using linear and expressional shapes. "Attraction" and "Loneliness" could be mentioned here. "Art is a visual language and lines are its primary manifestations," says Artist Eshetu Tiruneh. Straight and curved lines are not only basic, they are also complimentary and relatively opposite to each other. When they are marked on the canvas at different directions they will give different expressions in the mind of viewers. For this reason, they have a power to influence viewers' perception. As a visual language, lines are predisposed to different interpretations. When they are drawn jointly or independently, either they have representational or expressional meanings. In other words, they will express the feeling of the artist in the form of abstract or realistic styles. Several Ethiopian artists have applied this style. They are still using it. However, none has achieved the climax like that of Artist and Poet Gebrekerstos Desta. As an icon, he was a topnotch artist in the area. Senafekesh seems to have been on the path to create her own style too. Well, there was times where Ethiopian women were discouraged to express themselves in art--due to cultural constraints. However, it does not mean that Ethiopian women were sitting idle. Despite all cultural constraints, they were always contributing their share to their land, and struggled to alter the status quo. Women artists are likely to inspire societal transformation. Their influence starts home and spreads to all segments of the society. The growing number of art galleries and promotional works, observed in Addis Ababa and other state towns, would further enhance the power of their art works.