This is an era where artificial intelligence is almost dominating the technological sphere of our planet. Nations with better technological innovations are registering progress through using artificial intelligence. It is obvious that developed nations are the pioneers in this regard. Countries with less economic performance are always far behind such technological advancement. Ethiopia is not different from this. There might be several reasons that hold back developing countries from applying artificial intelligence. Their economic problem and failure to invest in children at the early stage could be one reason. Rekab Melkamu is 7th grader. This journalist met him at one of Robotics developing firm where children were assembling and programming robots. For him, assembling and programming of robots at the early period have a great role in shaping his the future. He believes that in addition to the theoretical knowledge a student acquires in school, he/she has to be supported by practical knowledge. He said this is a technological era where robots are performing the most sophisticated things. Physics, mathematics, science programming and designing are behind this artificial intelligence. Therefore, having more training centers where children can learn while playing ignites their soul and inspire them to create something new, he added. Kedus Tesemma is the other student who is developing his software skills. He believes that in addition to the theoretical knowledge he obtains from his teachers, spending time in the robotic center have significant role to know more about engineering and science. He said that artificial intelligence and technological issues seem as if they are only left to developed nations. However, if there is good access, commitment and willing, developing countries have the same potential and skills. Senakriem Mekonnen,iken Ethiopia Robotics Director, builds on the views the students have reflected. He said, investing in the mind of children at early stage have positive impacts on acquainting themselves on artificial technology. Ethiopia is a country which is growing very fast. In this regard, developing artificial intelligence and nurturing children under this path is not optional, it rather is a must. According to him, "Luckily, Ethiopia has such kind of children with a potential to program and design robots. This is witnessed in robotic competition that held outside Ethiopia. For instance, in a competition that held at Canada, Ethiopian children have demonstrated their astounding skills. For this year, there is also another competition that U.S. and Ethiopian children will represent their country at VEX global Robotic competition." Senakrem also said: "whenever there is a chance, Ethiopian children are competent. This is a good indication that if we keep investing in children, we will have a better future in the area of artificial intelligence. " Robotics education and competition, in this regard, enables students, mentors, and schools to have tangible technology-based knowledge. It will provide them with an option to be solution maker and foster their technical and interpersonal skills. If children are nurtured at early stage in areas of engineering and designing, they can develop good skills in their later years, he said, adding that if children are trained to practice programming artificial intelligence at the early age their problem solving capacity will be better. "When we talk about robotic technology, we are also talking about Maths, Science, engineering and technology education. These fields of studies have a significant role to nurture students in technology." Acquiring practical understanding to these subjects have practical effect on their future carrier, he stressed. "Through practicing and programming robots, children will come to understand the basic concept of designing and engineering. If we spend on our children today, we are sure to expand our economy tomorrow use this new sector." Kejela Waktola, physics teacher at Bole Preparatory school in Addis Ababa, believes that students may have theoretical knowledge on physics or mathematics, but if it becomes realistic when compounded with practice. To him, pertinent private and public entities ought to attach increased attention with the issue, and expand centers that the young generation can have access to the technology.