The series of visits by two super powers and an emerging economy, the Foreign Ministers of US, Russia and UAE, signals Ethiopia's ever growing diplomatic engagement in international arenas which in turn continue to attract public limelight. Over the years, Ethiopia's soft power in international arena has been growing. The country's achievements have emerged to be a blessing for other African countries as well in what the outgoing US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson described Ethiopia as important country to begin visits to Africa. During their stop to Addis Ababa, the Ministers discussed bilateral and other international issues of concerns. In a nut shell, the three foreign ministers, among others, have agreed to bolster their ties particularly in terms of trade and investment The Ethiopian Herald approached two Political Science scholars to discuss how they see the visits in particular and international relations of the nation in general. K. Mathews, Professor of International Relations at Addis Ababa University (AAU), believes that Ethiopia's diplomatic capabilities reach to the levels that "It is a subtle requirement for any external power with an interest in Africa to consult first with Addis Ababa." He mentions that China and India seize on this and are able to deeply penetrate African market. What works for Beijing and Delhi, Prof. Mathews says, "also works for Washington and Moscow; for Ethiopia's key role in protecting their interest goes beyond the Horn to the wider continent." For him the three ministers have been here mainly to elevate trade and investment linkages with Africa, although there are still significant issues like that of security. "Once there was a widespread belief that Africa is a 'hopeless continent' especially on the western side. But the Chinese recognized Africa to be the future of the world to which they toiled to exploit the potential on significantly. "Now, the importance of Africa is known in all corners of the world. That is why the Westerns and others' interests are reviving. That is why more and more visitors are coming to Ethiopia: they want to get involved in Africa," the Professor adds. At the end of the day, according to Prof. Mathews, Ethiopia remains beneficiary from such encroachments. As the Foreign Policy of Ethiopia clearly stipulates the country follows the strategy of openness with any willing country, such approaches by these countries will be warmly welcomed. This is because that they add alternative sources of funds widening tax base domestically and bolster Ethiopia's latitude to defy donor pressures, as per the International Relations Professor. Dr. Demeke Achiso is also Assistant Professor of Political Science and International Relations at AAU. He mentions that Ethiopia's performance on international field has immensely grown because of its unique conditions in the continent. Reminding that Ethiopia is a diplomatic hub or center of Africa and several missions through IGAD, AU, and with UN especially in terms of peace and security, Dr. Demeke says: "So whenever foreign countries plan to visit Africa, their first priority is Ethiopia." The Assistant Professor claiming on 'the give and take' principle of international relations raises that there are some overlap of interests that the recent visitors and Ethiopia are aspiring. On the part of Ethiopia the recent visits are good to promote investment and more importantly to maintain its role as the voice of Africa in international fields, he says. The visitors in return will advance their involvement in Africa, a zone of competition in the twenty first century. One of the primary objectives of the visitors is probably to scale up their engagement in Africa indirectly competing China, Demeke adds. Generally speaking both scholars see the last week diplomatic approach to have several benefits for the visiting states and the visited one. Ethiopia gains more investment and other economic advantageous which adds sources of finance.