It has been over one year since Ethiopia has come up with new national tourism brand , "Land of Origins" replacing its over half century brand "Thirteen Months' Sun Shine". So what needs to be done in terms of familiarizing the new tourism motto? As it is clearly stated in GTP II, the nation has envisioned to increase the share of the tourism sector by five percent annually. Hence, it has to promote the new brand with this regard. Indeed, many believe that the national new tourism motto "Land of origins" has been originated to generate the desired income in the sector within a short period of time. Moreover, the new motto has something to tell about the country being the origin of humankind; named 'Lucy' and others. For Ethiopian Tourism Organization Public Relations and Communication Director Getnet Yigzaw, the organization is actively working on familiarization of the new tourism brand jointly with the diplomatic community, international and national media outlets as well as hotels, tour and travels operators and other sector actors. Fore instance, as part of promoting the new brand,the organization has been participating in international trade fairs, providing training to State Tourism Bureau Heads and sector practitioners on Ethiopian tourism marketing and branding strategy , he adds. As to him, promotion of the brand requires a lot of work particularly in getting across the real message of the motto to the public at large and making clear the meaning of the emblem and harmonic colors in the brand. "Compared to the previous brand, the current one is designed to portray the holistic manifestations of the country," he says. Talking about the ongoing efforts of the organization in publicizing the brand , Getnet indicates that discourses, short films, documentaries and the likes are being prepared and disseminated using various media outlets. He also notes that the organization has been conducting series of promotion campaigns towards the new brand in universities, colleges, primary and high schools. " Such activities have been creating the desired awareness about the brand among new generations." Gezahegn Abate, Public and International Relations Director at the Ministry of Culture and Tourism , says tourism brand is the matter of identifications of a given country's exclusive and prominent tourists' attractions. " For the time being , Ethiopia: "Land of Origins" is representing the country's dominant tourists' destinations well but, there is nothing that prohibits from upgrading [changing] tourism brand in the future," he adds. For him, socio-economic development, new potential tourists' destinations emerging, agreement to come up with a new brand, among others are the major factors to change tourism brand not service period. Gezahegn says currently the ministry is working on building brand awareness of the new brand across the world . The number of tourists' inflow is showing increment compared to the past years. Some 485,806 tourists had visited the country in the past six months of this fiscal year and 1.8 billion USD generated as well , according to him. The country's tourism sector is still at its initial point through supporting national development and earning a remarkable GDP share in the nation's economy. Thus, working on building brand awareness, tourists' service provision improvement, infrastructural development and human powers quality are the key factors to generate more income from the tourism and hospitality sector, both agree.