I was not surprised to read that you have chosen to dump Jah Prayzah's Military Touch Movement. I saw it coming Andy. In fact I once asked you about the union in its early days and you were adamant that it was a clean deal. Many people tried to warn you about its underlying implications and you seemed blinkered. They were not against Jah Prayzah's project. Most musicians worldwide have such stables and they make good business. Jah Prayzah knows business and coming up with MTM was a noble idea. What was suspicious was the foundation on which the deal was based. With the heat that your music was beginning to blow towards him, it was highly unlikely that the deal would be sincere. Your talent was evident in some of your first songs. Do you remember that night in September, 2016 when we were in your car outside Club Manucho at Zindoga shops? We had a rushed chat because you were already changing into your stage outfit and the band was waiting for you on stage. Still, you had time to tell me how you admire your brother from Uzumba, Jah Prayzah. You said you owe a lot to him and I rightly applauded you for saluting people that help you up the ladder. However, an article that followed our conversation, made a striking comparison between you and Jah Prayzah. It was headlined "Jah Prayzah vs Andy Muridzo ... Mdhara Vachauya won't last the distance, Copycat can grab golden opportunity". It was about how Jah Prayzah's change of beat on his album "Mdhara Vachauya" had left an opportunity for you in the contemporary traditional style that you both pursued. It was true Andy. Jah had left a gap and you were simply supposed to fit. You would have made exploits and people were beginning to support you. We seemed headed for exciting competition. Competition makes the music industry eventful. People were anxious to see how you would do against your brother. Then boom! You let off an explosive shocker. You decided to join your rival's camp. Andy, you disappointed people that were following you. In an article titled "Jah Prayzah, Andy Muridzo deal suspicious", I tried to make you see behind the veil. One of our columnists by pseudonym Elder Zex wrote directly to you in his "Check Your Mail" column. It was headlined "Open your eyes, Andy Muridzo". He raised interesting facts about your union with Jah Prayzah and advised you to go it alone. You could not get any of the advice. Obviously it was not about the contract because you have indicated that you now want to have it terminated, when you still have four years to go. The fact that you are jumping ship before it expires means you could have done so anytime before. Our suspicions were confirmed when MTM started controlling some activities that were supposed to be under your Jeetaz Band's jurisdiction. Your manager Gift Petro always complained about this. He wanted you to be out of MTM a long time ago, but you refused to see the light. You got advice from many people Andy. Not many musicians are lucky to have so many people trying to assist. You were thick-necked until recently when you realised that (in your words), "MTM ndeyekuitisasa chete" as you told Prince Mushawevato of The Sunday Mail last week. You also said you do not want to continue living in that mistake. At least you have now realised that it was a mistake. At least you have realised it after just one year of the five years that you were supposed to be tied to MTM. But one year is a long time for a musician. Your album "Tichambotenderera" has already suffered in the mist of the deal. Remember how the launch was handled? Hopefully you will agree to an amicable separation with your brother and launch your upcoming album "Munondo" successfully. Munondo is Shona word for sword and it shows that you are ready for the music battle. Hopefully, you have sharpened the sword enough to penetrate the tough music scene with impact. You can make it if your "Munondo" is sharp enough. Just learn to take advice next time. And today's piece of advice to you is to watch your ego and drinking habits. I have attended your mid-week slots at Club Iridium (now East Point) and realised that your imagined fame might be getting into your head. Just be humble. Humility conquers all. Look at Oliver Mtukudzi and Alick Macheso. They have achieved a lot, but they remain humble. A big head will get too heavy for you before you go anywhere. You also have to monitor your drinking levels when you are at work. Do you remember that day at Iridium when you almost failed to go on stage because you were tipsy? Watch out for such habits. You have plenty of time to drink when you are not on stage or in studio. Wish you the best with "Munondo". You are still young and you still have a chance to shine. Go for it Andy. Yours in showbiz Godwin Muzari Arts Editor