Non — communicable diseases have now become a serious health concern in developing countries. It was against this backdrop that Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa called for a multi-sectoral approach to tackling the problem when opening a regional health ministers' meeting in Dar es Salaam on Monday. It is generally agreed that the vast majority of people in developing countries, including Tanzania, lack accurate information about the causes of non-communicable diseases and how to manage them. What was once thought to be a health problem that was confined to developed countries is now a reality in the developing world, with devastating consequences. As people become more prosperous with more disposable income, they tend to lead sedentary lifestyles with little or no physical exercise, and caring precious little about what they eat. This almost inevitably leads to obesity, hypertension, diabetes and other chronic conditions. Unfortunately, many Tanzanians still harbour the mistaken belief that being "sick" or healthy and fit as a fiddle is limited to whether or not one has HIV. It is not uncommon for people to celebrate for days on end upon learning that they are HIV-free without knowing that they may be suffering from other life-threatening conditions such as heart disease and hypertension. People give themselves a clean bill of health without going beyond HIV and malaria tests. Most Tanzanians are now aware of the threat posed by malaria and HIV/Aids and what needs to be done to protect themselves, which is a very positive development as Tanzania grapples with the two major killers. However, few Tanzanians are aware that non-communicable diseases are also a major health concern, and even fewer know that many of the afflictions are preventable and can be managed if detected early Regular checkups make it possible for such conditions to be detected early, thus improving the chances of their being treated or managed. Advice can also be offered to reduce the risk of developing non-communicable diseases. Diversify export markets India's decision to stop importing pigeon peas from Tanzania has had a devastating impact on Tanzanian farmers who depend on the crop. No official reason has been given for the decision, but it is thought that the move was prompted by bumper harvests of pigeon peas in India - the world's biggest producer of the crop - in the last few seasons. What are currently being seen in Tanzania are the pitfalls of depending on a single export destination for an agricultural product. Of the 200,000 tonnes of pigeon peas produced annually in Tanzania, up to 180,000 tonnes were exported to just one country - India. Not surprisingly, farmers in various parts of Tanzania have been left with large stocks of pigeon peas which they have been unable to sell. The glut of the crop has also slashed demand and sent prices plummeting to as low as Sh200 per kilogramme from between Sh2,000 and Sh4,000.