The Central Water Authority (CWA) has embarked on an ambitious project of replacing 32 km of water pipes in Rose Hill to the tune of Rs 325 million. Once the project is completed, inhabitants of this town will be guaranteed a 24/7 supply of water with adequate pressure. This statement was made yesterday by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy and Public Utilities, Mr Ivan Collendavelloo, during the launching ceremony of the Rose Hill Water Supply Projects (Rose Hill 1 and Rose Hill 2) held at Soopramanien Street in Rose Hill. The Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Local Government and Outer Islands, Mrs Fazila Jeewa-Daureeawoo, and the Minister of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms, Mr Eddy Boissézon, as well as other eminent personalities were present. The Deputy Prime Minister pointed out that the actual water network has reached the end of its lifespan. The existing water network, he said, dates far back before independence and is vulnerable to the present traffic loads and the pipes are subject to frequent breakage representing 50% loss of water. Mr Collendavelloo highlighted that Government is working on a major water reform which will further enhance the water distribution system. Several projects to the tune of around Rs 8 billion are currently being implemented in the water sector, he added. They include: replacement of old and defective pipelines across the island; increase in storage capacity of service reservoirs; and increase in treatment capacity. As at date, around 220 000 out of 330 000 households are getting water round the clock and in Port Louis, 98% of the population is benefitting from 24/7 water supply, he said. Speaking about the revision of water tariffs, the Deputy Prime Minister said that a fair and reasonable increase will be applicable and the measure will soon come into force. Government, he stated, will also engage a private operator for the privatisation of the CWA while adding that the partnership shall be in place before the end of the year. For her part, the Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Local Government and Outer Islands, Mrs Fazila Jeewa-Daureeawoo, emphasised that the water problem in Rose Hill has not been addressed since several years. She added that the new project will ensure a better distribution of water to all inhabitants. As regards the developments being undertaken in the town of Rose Hill, Mrs Jeewa-Daureeawoo recalled that Rs 100 million will be injected for the development of a new parc in Ebène over an area of eight arpents. Government, she underlined, will also proceed with the construction of a Community Centre, a Social Welfare Centre and a mediclinic in Rose Hill. The objective, she pointed out, is to enhance the quality of life of the inhabitants in Rose Hill. The Chairperson of the Central Water Board, Mr Gaston Francois Desmarais, stated that the pipe replacement works in Rose Hill will be carried out in a phased manner so as to decrease the inconvenience caused to the inhabitants. He pointed out that the CWA is working towards ensuring supply of water of good quality round the clock at improved regular pressure. The institution, he highlighted, is implementing several projects aimed at increasing treated water, rehabilitating and expanding treatment plants, replacing pipe network to decrease Non Revenue Water and enhancing storage capacity. The Rose Hill Water Supply Project The town of Rose Hill which is the 3rd most densely populated region in Mauritius has experienced rapid demographic growth over the last four decades. Rose Hill has a water supply of four hours in the morning and four hours in the afternoon with poor pressure. The objective of the project is to improve pressure and provide uninterruptible water supply round the clock. With the commissioning of the Bagatelle Water Treatment Plant, additional water will be made available to improve water supply not only in Rose Hill areas but also in other adjoining regions. The Treatment Plant will produce 60 000 m3 per day and 30 000 m3 will be injected in Rose Hill and adjoining areas and the rest will be sent to Moka, Soreze, Pailles and Port Louis. Works are expected to be completed in 2019.