Founder of Trustco Group Holdings Quinton van Rooyen issued an apology on Friday for a sexist advertisement that was published on Facebook for an open position on the company's board. The online advert depicted American transgender and reality TV personality Caitlyn Jenner wearing a lingerie top and standing next to men wearing executive suits in the background, followed by a caption: "Some will do anything to get a seat." Van Rooyen previously praised his marketing team on social media for a "brilliant ad", before admitting in a statement that their advert had been removed by Facebook following complaints by the public. In a lengthy video which was also posted on Facebook, Van Rooyen said he wanted to recognise the victims who face daily discrimination, exclusion and injustice, adding that he wants to thank the activists and "passionate Namibians" who spoke up against the issues that must be addressed as a nation. He, however, avoided making any reference to the controversial advert in his statement. "I apologise that after 28 years of independence, I as a Namibian must still see vulnerable Namibians isolated and shunned because of sexual orientation or gender. We must try harder, and I implore Namibian men to rally to the aid of our mothers, wives, brothers and sisters who suffer discrimination through stereotyping, and bear it through the silence of the majority," he stated. He also addressed the transgender community in Namibia which is prevented by law into entering same-sex marriages, and denying them the most basic human right. "It is painful to see that gender and sexual orientation infected our democracy, only to be used as a primitive weapon to demonise and to disqualify," he added. However, in comments that followed the video, members of the public expressed disappointment at the company's apology, claiming that Van Rooyen apologised for everything else except the controversial advert. One commenter stated: "I thought Trustco was going to apologise for the advertisement. Instead, Quinton van Rooyen thought it wise to apologise for everything but the actions of himself and his team. Do they honestly believe that people are too stupid to understand the difference?" The advert also received a rap from First Lady Monica Geingos, who said: "Don't trivialise how this ad makes people feel." Several activists likewise condemned the advertisement. Ethne Mudge, a Namibian activist for intersectional gender equality, noted that the social media handle "@TrustcoHellNo" should be used to educate the company on gender issues. "The petition "@TrustcoHellNo" calls for an apology and for transformative gender training in the company, but most of all the too many victims of gender-based violence in the country deserve to hear from their leaders that there are consequences to flagrant sexism because time is up!" she stated. Mudge called on Vanity Fair magazine to follow up on copyright infringement for the illegal use of Caitlyn Jenner's picture by portrait photographer Annie Liebovitz. "Can we get Vanity Fair to follow up on this copyright infringement? Are there voices who can use the traction of this company's fame to send a message to the nation's victims that they are not alone at this time?" she asked.