His name might not ring a bell in local music followers' heads but his passion will likely take him to a big level. Plying his trade as DJ Spox, Australia-based musician Polite Moyo says he is determined to raise the country's flag high in a foreign terrain before he brings back his mission to home soil. He has had experience in the Australian music industry through working with a group called Afro Oz Musica in Adelaide. Now he has gained enough experience to go it alone and will release his debut album titled "Domestic Violence". The album is culmination of a music journey that began in Gwanda when Moyo was a young boy herding cattle and playing home-made guitars. "My musical journey began in Zimbabwe, in rural area called Zelezele in Gwanda, where I was born. It was there that I developed my musical tastes and interests, and it wasn't long after picking up a guitar that I never looked back." The development of his unique style is the result of a lifetime of musical influence. Growing up in a talented musical family meant that Moyo was always surrounded by different forms of music. "At a young age, I was also mentored by my cousins who I grew up with. They all have a profound influence on the direction my musical journey has taken." His unique playing style led him to join Kafusi Super Sounds, a community band from his area. Using home-made instruments, they played at numerous gigs around Kafusi Growth Point. He kept pursuing music as he did his school until a call for studies saw him relocating to Australia. He did not abandon his love for music because of relocation. "I joined a group called Afro Oz Musica in Adelaide, South Australia as their bassist. My talent with a variety of musical instruments only added to my appeal, and my unique dancing and bass-playing skills started to find an appreciative audience." He continued his music developed and was mentored by renowned producer Munya Maidza, who continues to be his mentor. His music now has various influences because of being surrounded by various sounds. He sings in Ndebele, Shona, Sotho and English, providing literally a room full of music from different backgrounds. His dream is to make music that will appeal to different people, but he maintains a traditional Zimbabwean feel in his compositions. "The experience I got on Australian stages has taught me that music is a universal art. I can sing in Shona and people from other parts of the world will enjoy the music. It is like that everywhere. Music is a universal language."