The community of Sechaba Mahobeville (formerly called E Section) and that of the entire Botshabelo commemorated the Sharpville Massacre Day, now named Human Rights Day, in a historic fashion when Hon. Premier, Mr. Ace Magashule officially opened a state-of-the-art Library yesterday. The Sechaba Mahobe Library was officially opened amid fanfare by the Hon. Premier, flanked by the MEC of Sport, Arts, Culture and Recreation, Me. Mathabo Leeto, Members of the Executive Council, the Executive Mayor of Mangaung Metropolitan Municipality, Cllr. Olly Mlamleli and the Councilors of the municipality, the Director-General, Mr. Kopung Ralikontsane and other senior government officials, as well as dignitaries. The family of the late Sechaba Mahobe, after whom the Library was named, also addressed the masses which gathered to witness the event. "We are honoured by the gesture to name the Library after our brother, son, and father. It is indeed heartening that the name of our Sechaba Mahobe will not be forgotten. We thank the Free State Provincial Government for this honour" - Lehlohonolo Mahobe said on behalf of the family. Sechaba Mahobe grew up in the dusty streets of E Section, which has been named after him. He was active in the community struggles against the Apartheid system. His activism will be particularly remembered for his role in the struggles fermented by the Botshabelo Youth Congress (BOYCO), against the agenda by the Apartheid regime to incorporate Botshabelo under Qwaqwa, an independent state under the then repressive government. In 2000, Sechaba Mahobe was elected as a Ward Councillor of Ward 32 in the Mangaung Local Municiplaity. He served the community and the Council with sheer selflessness and diligence until he passed away in 2002. The naming of this Library, which boasts, amongst others, computers, a kitchen, a wealth of books and study materials, ample study facilities and a beautiful garden, after Mahobe, is one of the goals of the Provincial Government to ensure that his name is never forgotten. To further assist the family of Mahobe, three family members of the struggle veteran will be employed in the Library. The Library will further provide employment and other opportunities to the members of the community where the Library is located. The Hon. Premier, who is expected to resign in the coming week and take his full time responsibilities as Secretary General of the ANC at its Head Offices, also introduced the Premier-elect, Hon. Sefora "Sisi" Ntombela, who is currently the MEC for Cooperative Governance, Traditional Affairs and Human Settlements. After a short visit to the newly built hall at W Section, located in Ward 36, the Premier proceeded to the Botshabelo Arena, which is situated at the Kaizer Sebothelo Stadium, to further address the community in commemoration of the 58th anniversary of the Sharpeville Massacre. On 21 March 1960, the Apartheid police opened fire on approximately 5 000 unarmed people, who were protesting against the racist Pass Laws. In this impasse, 69 people were killed and almost 200 were wounded, and the entire black nation was left traumatized. "You must never forget about where we are coming from. The fight for land and economic freedom for our people, the majority of whom are African and female, must continue in honour of the victims of the Sharpeville Massacre", the clearly emotional Premier said in his address. Issued by: Free State Office of the Premier