THERE are absolutely no conflicts between local artists and the Government. The Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe made this clear in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Together with his deputy, Juliana Shonza, the Arts Council's (BASATA) Executive Sectary, Godfrey Mngereza, the Executive Secretary of the Film Board, Joyce Fissoo and the Bongo Flava mega star, Nassibu Abdul Juma, popularlyknown as Diamond Platinumz, Minister Mwakyembe informed journalists. However, the Minister also admitted that there has been a drift from local norms and that it is the responsibility of every local artist to protect these customs, which he stated as being "a very important part of local culture". He then reminded those present of an attitude expressed by the late Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere after independence. That is, "A nation without its own culture, is the same as a dead nation and Tanzanians should strive not to turn into such a nation." Then the Minister directed the Ministry's executives and its institutes, including BASATA, the Film Board and the TCRA, to meet with groups of local artists dealing with music regularly. "The aim for these meetings is to exchange so that the artists can get a better understanding of the required procedure, when meeting authorities dealing with Art. This is necessary for the Government to be satisfied with theworks they have prepared, before it is distributed," Mwakyembe explained. The minister insisted that the decision by his deputy to ban some songs recently, was done in accordance with the nation's laws and not by the discretion of any single individual in the Ministry. Therefore, it should be understood that the steps taken by the Deputy Minister, Juliana Shonza, were from the ministry in accordance with the rule of national law. On her part, the Deputy Minister insisted artists should follow protocol, by submitting their works early to the respective authorities, so as to avoid future inconveniences. She also reminded them that protecting norms is an unceasing process. Added to this, she also requested that the Film Board and the TCRA should attach the principles associated with different levels of arts, so that the works that are appropriate for adults only, be watched from 12 at night to 6 in the morning. When asked by journalists for his feelings concerning the meeting, which lasted over four hours on Tuesday, Diamond said he was very happy that he had a chance to meet the Minister, Deputy Minister and other officials that were present. He had come to the meeting with his managers, Sallam Sharaff, Hamis Taletale a.k.a. Babutale and Said Fella a.k.a. Mkubwa Fella. Before leaving Shonza was also asked to give her view of the meeting to which she replied, she was satisfied and pleased to see that they were able to sit down and discuss issues, which would go towards improving the country's image. Mwakyembe's last words were to thank Diamond for being "a true flag bearer", whom he appreciated for the work he is doing, both inside and outside of the country.