MICROSOFT and Zensar are set to make inroads in the growth areas of cloud, digital, big data, analytics, cyber-security and ecommerce in Southern Africa. This follows Zensar's extension of its managed partner relationship with Microsoft in South Africa in the Global Systems Integrator (GSI) market. Indian firm Zensar is a leading digital solutions and technology services company that specializes in partnering with global organizations across industries on their digital transformation journey. Sandeep Kishore, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Zensar, said cloud was now mainstream and their long-standing partnership with Microsoft gave them expertise to help our regional customers experience benefits from our Return on Digital proposition strengthened by this partnership. "South Africa is a growth market and a strategic region for us. We look forward to enabling our regional customers to embark on the path of cloud transformation seamlessly and successfully," said Kishore. Zensar has a proven track record in facilitating business transformation for enterprises, and its cross-industry and solution knowledge will accelerate the journey to cloud for our mutual customers, said Microsoft South Africa Partner Development Manager, Frikkie Bosch. "Our combined strengths across key solution areas and industry offerings will enable companies to successfully modernise their business applications, accelerate the digital business transformation and enable the agility regard to effectively operate in today's world," Bosch said. The two companies currently work closely in the region. Harish Lala, Senior Vice-President and Head, Africa, Zensar, said the partnership with Microsoft opened up new opportunities to harness the power of digital, with quick turnaround in business outcomes. "We also aim to influence a marked increase in the adoption of cloud technology in the region through this partnership," Lala commented. The scope of the extended partnership will involve the Zensar team working with Microsoft's recently-formed One Commercial Partner team to build a go to market strategy. This will involve leveraging Zensar engagements and case studies on Azure as well as more than 100 Zensar Azure certified associates.