Serengeti has attracted showbiz mogul, Simon Fuller, billed as the most influential person in the United Kingdom, to work on new television series on Tanzania's second largest National Park. Simon Fuller, who was recently spotted in Serengeti, has already filmed most parts of the documentary. He has lined up the 'Serengeti' TV Series to air on British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Television, but he is yet to reveal when the series are going to run. The 'Serengeti' series are predicted to become successful just as Fuller's other projects have been. He is the brain behind the world's most famous girls' pop group, the Spice Girls; singer Jennifer Lopez; Britney Spears; Cathy Dennis and Gary Barlow. He is also credited for Fox Television's very popular TV programme, 'American Idol' in addition to managing estates left behind by boxer Mohammed Ali. Simon Fuller says he realised an opportunity to connect viewers with wildlife in a new way. Speaking to the media in London, the pop culture mogul stated; "I have noticed a growing audience for factual television; People are having a greater interest in our planet and a growing passion for animals," adding that he saw this as a perfect opportunity to create a new type of television show, enabling the viewer to relate to a subject they will love in a new, connective and empathetic way. Production under expert wildlife programmes producer, John Downer, involved multiple cameras and drones. The series was filmed in Ultra High Definition (UHD), and there will also be 360-degree footage. The team stayed clear of the usual species featured in Tanzanian wildlife footages; Fuller did not film wildebeests, or elephants. His animal stories covered warthogs, Lions, Mongoose, and Cheetahs. BBC Worldwide, meanwhile, is pre-selling the series. Shot in the so-called, endless plains, the six-part series weaves together multiple animals' storylines to bring their real-life stories to screen. The idea for the series came through Fuller's work with animal charities and a fact-finding trip he recently took to the Serengeti, during which, he said, he realised a lot of wildlife issues were due to lack of human empathy with animals