Kyadondo East MP Robert Kyagulanyi Ssentamu has queried NRM party chairman Gen Yoweri Museveni's leadership abilities to continue as president of Uganda following the increasing cases of kidnaps and murder in the country. Kyagulanyi aka Bobi Wine said that the centre can no longer hold and the earlier Ugandans realise this and save themselves from the current bondage, the better so as to save more lives and property because the current government can't guarantee their security anymore. According to Bobi Wine, the state is preoccupied with keeping itself in power rather than protecting Ugandans. There has been an increase in the spate of murders; robberies, kidnaps - orchestrated by both criminals and security operatives Bobi Wine was addressing a press conference at the National Theatre upon his return from the United States where he has been pursuing a leadership course at Harvard University. He said that it was unfortunate for President Museveni, who, in 1989 while addressing a security meeting, said that he could not preside over government whose security and district administrators could not trace murderers of innocent civilians. "Unfortunately, 30 years later, it is the same president that only takes to social media to mourn people that are being gruesomely killed without any answers. This is not the first, we saw a spell of murders of women across Wakiso and nearby districts and indeed many Ugandans are killed with no police report at all," Bobi Wine said. The MP said it was sad coming back to Uganda and learn of more shocking kidnaps and most especially the recent gruesome murder of Susan Magara. Magara, a cashier with her family business, Bwendero Dairy Farm was kidnapped on February 7 near her home in Lungujja in Lubaga division. Her body was found dumped at Kitiko off the Southern bypass highway 20 days later. Her captors reportedly demanded for $1 million (about Shs 3.5 billion) in ransom money. The kidnappers had already been paid about Shs 700 million at the time of her murder according to some family members. A seemingly angry Museveni who broke the news of Magara's murder, said the "swines" who killed her would be brought to book to face justice. He also suggested installation of more CCTV cameras and capturing of biometric and DNA data of every Ugandan. According to Magara's family, her captors used up to 17 mobile phone Sim-cards to communicate and demand for their ransom during the last 3 weeks. Some of the Sim-cards were reportedly not registered while others were registered under other people's names. "DNA records of everybody are good to compare with blood samples, sweat, sperm etc found at the scene of the crime. Palm-prints are better than thumbprints because the criminal may leave the palm-print and not a thumbprint," Museveni said. Police also placed a Shs 100 million bounty for anybody with information that would lead to the arrest of Magara's kidnappers and killers. But according to Kyagulanyi, the response from police and Museveni is disappointing and offers no solution to the rampant kidnaps and murders in the country. "The response of the president is not what we would expect from a president who is in charge. It was evident that our president is not in charge and indeed our security organs are not in control of the situation," he said. "It is disappointing to see that police has come up after another murder of a woman and put Shs 100m bounty to look for killers when the same was not done when more than a dozen women were killed, that is a disappointment," Kyagulanyi added. Last year, 24 women were killed in Nansana and Entebbe municipalities in Wakiso district in what appeared to be serial murders.