Although Nigeria is facing different challenges to her development process, some challenges pose greater threats to her unity and security than others, including herdsmen killings, Boko Haram insurgency, corruption, mounting poverty, inequality, unemployment, rising cost of living, and ethnic/religious conflicts. To you, which of these factors pose the greatest challenge to Nigeria's development process and how can it be tackled successfully? * The surge in herdsmen mayhem across states in Nigeria, Boko Haram insurgency and the continuous kid's gloves handling by our leadership, is highly alarming. We need to be alive first before we can think of how to tackle poverty, corruption etc. How did Nigeria become a cheap prey? - Ms. Nkeiruka Abanna, Lagos State * Though the Nigerian State is bedeviled with complex developmental challenges, the most fundamental threat to the sustainable progress of Nigeria is the bane of quality leadership and corruption. Quality, innovative and inclusive leadership devoid of corrupt tendencies will resolve all other challenges of insecurity, poverty, unemployment, ethnicity and religious conflicts, unemployment among other issues. Leadership is the fulcrum pillar upon which Nigeria's development will be anchored. God bless Nigeria. - Mr. Ekpa, Stanley Ekpa, author, Abuja * Insurgency is our real threat today. The past governments trivialised Boko Haram and today Nigeria is in gory security crises, living in permanent fears daily especially in the North-east. Rampant killer herdsmen must also be sincerely checked before it is too late. Benefactors of this tragedy are not spirits. Think of all the precious lives, money, time, energy etc expended so far to no avail. Now that elections are due, a stitch in time will definitely save nine. - Miss Apeji Patience Eneyeme, Badagry, Lagos State * The biggest threat to our development at this stage is the lack of social virtue called trust. In a democracy like ours, we the voters must be able to trust the elected leaders that they are working in our best interest but this is not presently the case. If the masses cannot trust leaders to make the best decision, the leaders are handicapped because their legitimacy is already challenged. We need trust in our society so that we can stop shouting down ourselves in needless battles of rivalry and engage in healthy debates to help us formulate the best policies for national development. - Mr. Oluwapelumi Oyeniyi, Osogbo, Osun State * Well, we are architects of our problems because we failed to elect credible people in governance to move Nigeria forward. Until we stop tribal or religious sentiment in leadership, we cannot have any impact in development of Nigeria. Let us correct our mistake come 2019. - Mr. Gordon Chika Nnorom, Public Commentator, Umukabia, Abia State * The four current biggest threats to Nigeria's development include: Fulani herdsmen killings; Boko Haram insurgency; increasing corruption where leaders are most culpable; and lack of truth from PMB and his close associates. We have come to believe that he has a different agenda and all those backing him have skeletons in their cupboards, and are afraid of exposure. - Hon. Babale Maiungwa, U/Romi, Kaduna * Herdsmen killings and the Boko Haram insurgency are menaces that affect businesses, agricultural development, movement and livelihoods of innocent citizens. We need educational development of the herdsmen in terms of new breeds of cattle and ranching, provision of cattle routes, education on the needs to live peacefully. To tackle the Boko Haram insurgency effectively there should be reorientation and training of the Military, Police forces and the State Security. The masses should be more alert, with a household census to identify those causing the various problems and bring them to book. - Mr. Michael Adedotun Oke, Founder Michael Adedotun Oke Foundation, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja * I think corruption is the greatest threat to our development. Looters should be indicted with death sentence and for anybody else who is indicted with them. Let Nigeria focus on zero tolerance to corruption. - Mr. Oye Ade, Lagos State * A past we have never learned from always seems to keep our development arrested in Nigeria. We always say, forget the past and come up with solutions. Then we go and make the exact same mistakes we made in the past. Every great country today analysed their past mistakes, learned from the errors and applied it to their present and consequently secured a good future. The solutions to our unique problems lie in our unique past. Until we go back, even as far as colonial rule, we may continue to repeat the same old errors. - Mr. Buga Dunj, Jos, Plateau State * Insecurity is the biggest threat to Nigeria's development today. Kidnapping, killer herdsmen, political robberies, treasury lootings in virtually every sector of the government, House, economy, polity, etc point to disunity, insincerity e.t.c yet they waste tax payers' funds, time and energy. Those manipulating our security system must be identified and hunted down urgently for good. - Mr. Apeji Onesi, Lagos State * Of all centrifugal forces threatening to tear Nigeria apart, two of them are particularly hydra-headed: poverty and insecurity. All other malaise plaguing the nation such as unemployment, inequality, terrorism, and killer herdsmen e.t.c are products of poverty and insecurity. To tackle these ills successfully, government must ameliorate the living condition of its citizens and be ready to deal decisively with any act of criminality, irrespective of whose ox is gored. - Mr. Paul A. Jideofor, Dept. of Languages, FCT COE, Zuba, Abuja * Which development, when there is no security; heartless Fulani herdsmen, continued Boko Haram killings, illegal arms are still in circulation; corruption, dehumanising poverty, and where both states and the federal government still owe pensioners and staff members? Government should as a matter of urgency step in to disarm all those who own such arms. Without doing such, no meaningful development will be achieved. - Mr. Dogo Stephen, Kaduna * The herders/farmers debacle should be thoroughly thrashed out with all sides willing and ready to compromise. Let us have model ranches first. The wealthy class should get together and set up a couple of these ranches and practicalise to the herders what they stand to gain financially e.t.c from buying into the new idea. Government should get serious about mopping up illicit firearms nationwide. - Mr. E. Iheanyi Chukwudi, B.A.R. Abuja * The legislators at the National Assembly constitute the biggest threat to our development, in my own view. They seem to live in a world of their own, far away from the people they represent. They only care about their own personal comfort and their antics also inadvertently led to this country's recent negative ranking on corruption by TI. The Legislature needs complete overhaul! - Mr. Olumuyiwa Olorunsomo, Lagos State THE RESPONSE Top threat: Insecurity Second: Corruption Third: Poverty Radical tip: Overhaul Legislators! Total no of respondents: 14 Male: 12 Female: 2 Highest location: Lagos (5) Next Week: Has Corruption Really Declined in Nigeria? Global anti-corruption watchdog, Transparency International recently released its Corruption Perception Index 2017, where Nigeria slid 12 places from 136th to 148th out of the 180 countries ranked, although the country scored 28 points out of 100 in 2017; compared to 26 points in 2016. Although the federal government has disputed the negative ranking, analysts believe the current administration's anti-corruption war has not effectively checked the scourge. To you, has corruption really declined or increased in Nigeria? What can be done?