PRESIDENT Hage Geingob will travel to China this week for an official state visit to improve bilateral relations between the two countries, the Presidency announced over the weekend. In a Saturday statement, State House press secretary Alfredo Hengari said Geingob will travel tomorow, 27 March, and will be returning on Tuesday, 3 April. Hengari said the President's visit will focus on Namibia-China bilateral cooperation in sectors critical to national development, including science and technology, infrastructure, agriculture, trade and industry, business facilitation, people-to-people exchanges and tourism. State House claims the visit to China will also look at strengthening commercial relations and development cooperation with the aim of contributing meaningfully to the economic and industrial development of the country. "We have a lot to learn from China, a major power, a key centre of excellence and technological innovation, and one that has been able to lift close to 800 million people out of poverty in less than four decades," the President was quoted in Hengari's statement. Hengari added that Geingob will be accompanied by First Lady Monica Geingos, a delegation of seven Cabinet ministers, six senior government officials, including permanent secretaries and other senior officials, along with five officials representing the mission organisers. Altogether the government delegation consists of about 22 people including two protection officers for the President. A large business delegation of 63 people, "who will pay for their own flights", representing various sectors of the economy and state-owned enterprises, will also form part of the delegation to China. The President this year has been calling on government to "carefully consider" foreign trips with the aim of reducing delegation sizes, and "weighing potential value gains" to save costs for government. Hengari said ministers and senior officials will be engaging with Chinese officials and that "there will be agreements to be signed in several sectors". He added that the President's call for cutting costs on foreign visits was taken into consideration when planning the China trip. "There are a lot of people who were supposed to be on that list, but were left behind. The President is responsible enough to make sure that the cost cutting measures are implemented," he said. He added that the President and his delegation will be travel-ling on a commercial flight, on Emirates Airlines, to further reduce costs. "After receiving a number of quotations from different airlines, including Air China, we chose Emirates Airlines because it was the cheapest. We are saving about N$800 000 for using a commercial flight, because the presidential jet could have cost about N$1,2 million," Hengari said yesterday.