This week, Ethiopia is celebrating the 7th anniversary of the commencement of the construction of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD). While celebrating this anniversary, we cannot overlook the contributions of the great leader, the Late Prime Minister Meles Zenawi whose leadership brought the GERD into existence. Meles Zenawi, a visionary leader ahead of his time, conceptualized the Dam that can transform the energy sector to accelerate the intended development of the nation. He also strongly believed that the Dam will contribute a great deal towards the country's poverty eradication movement. The leader whose skillful, strategic and determined leadership brought the biggest hydro-electric power project in Africa into a reality has a unique place in Ethiopia's Renaissance. Besides the GERD, the mega projects that determine the future of the nation are considered to be his brainchildren. As a result, he is known as the master designer of the Renaissance. In his decision to begin the construction on the Nile River, he faced certain resistances from experts and even from his cabinet members who used to believe the construction of such mega project would be unthinkable for the poor nation. Through great determination, he argued for the authenticity of his idea and convinced the entire citizens to follow him in laying cornerstone on the River seven years ago. These days, we are so amazed and convinced about the exactitude of his idea even though death limited him from seeing the fruits of his determined leadership. Even if the leader who is full of curiosity and initiative passed away five years and seven months ago, he has left his nation in his dreams. The nation has pursued his values and vision. His lasting legacy how to combine poverty reduction with environmental protection and green economy has continued to be the priority of his country. In short, his ideas are inextricably interwoven in Ethiopia's development plan. Being a leader of extraordinary loyalty and determination for the better of his nation, Meles was able to win the trust of the entire public. His determination conquered all to the extent his vision was able to mobilize citizens from all walks of life so that they actively participate in the construction of the Dam. Such great achievements of the leader are the results of his intellectual commitment and well skilled character. Meles' determination to begin the construction of the GERD is unparalleled contribution for the nation in connection to his lifelong commitment to peace, justice, climate-resilient development and good governance. He used to believe that the GERD would play the lion's share in poverty eradication campaign. The late leader whose ideas are still prevailing in Ethiopia's holistic development plan demonstrated the courage leadership requires and dared to lay a cornerstone for the GERD regardless of the discouraging views from experts and others. He spoke courageously and sustained a courageous leadership style with absolute commitment. He audaciously established unity among the peoples of nations and nationalities so that they can work towards the same goal of constructing the Dam. This made him the most remarkable leader in Africa. Because of his lasting legacies like GERD, Meles' life is not silent; it still speaks so powerfully for our encouragement to pursue his vision and remains to be the greatest voice in the history of the nation. In the last seven years, the GERD has become one of the main causes to encourage unity across the nation. And national consensus has been enhanced among the citizens while they are participating in the construction. The days Meles appeared called for bold, confident, courageous leadership. Due to the recurrent civil wars and extreme poverty, the nation was nearly to disintegrate. The entire circumstances of the nation strongly demanded the leader who would take risks and save the nation from falling apart. These days, courageous leaders like Meles are in high demand and short supply. Some pessimistic international organizations used to say, "There is a need to rethink concerning the decision to construct the GERD for it might be beyond the capacity of domestic finance." Fortunately, as a possibility thinker with his optimistic view, Meles persuaded the nation that the project would be a reality by Ethiopians. In short, Meles' decision to construct the GERD on Nile River would remain to be super extraordinary step in the Ethiopian Renaissance. In the last seven years, we have seen several persuasive evidences that confirm the authenticity of the decision. Thus, we should honour the commitment of the leader while we celebrate this seventh anniversary.