Mandunyane — President Lt Gen. Dr Seretse Khama Ian Khama on Saturday launched the dams tourism project at Shashe Dam. The project, which is a joint collaboration between Botswana Tourism Organisation, Water Utilities Corporation and the communities living around dams throughout the country, envisions dam tourism activities, which will be sustainably done in harmony with primary uses of the dams. It is also expected to contribute towards the diversification of the BTO tourism product and the improvement of the livelihoods of the people. Speaking during the launch, the Minister of Environment, Natural Resources Conservation and Tourism, Mr Tshekedi Khama praised the President for his leadership in the development of the dams tourism initiative. He explained that Shashe, Letsibogo and Thune dams were in the plan to be developed. The project, he noted, was meant to uplift the economic livelihoods of communities through the development of lodges, campsites, cycling, horse riding and fishing. Once the project kicks off, Minister Khama explained that the dam would be fenced off to avoid environmental pollution. He also thanked WUC for their assistance during the development of master plans for dam tourism. In terms of employment creation, the minister highlighted that 1 737 jobs would be generated from the dam tourism projects around the country with 636 envisaged at the Shashe Dam during the development phase. On other issues, Minister Khama said that they would carry out the project in collaboration with the Local Enterprise Authority to assist business start up from the local communities with skills. "Locals are also to actively participate in the dam tourism project," he added. Kgosi Joshua Joel of Mandunyane applauded the government for the long-awaited project and believed that the community was going to reap benefits unlike the current situation where people exploit the activities at the dam, leaving nothing for the residents. However, he pleaded with the President to parcel out some space around the dam for the Mandunyane Development Trust to develop their own income generating activities. In addition, he asked for assistance to develop their former ruins which they left behind when they settled in their current location. However, he pleaded with the President to ensure that the fencing of the dam does not leave farmers without water for the cattle. Kgosi Joel also thanked BTO for their extensive consultation in the dam tourism project as the community was engaged throughout. MP for Tonota, Mr Thapelo Olopeng noted that the Shashe Dam tourism project was highly viable due to its proximity to the A1 highway, the city of Francistown and the Francistown International Airport. He explained that many people visit the dam during holidays and over the weekends for entertainment. He also informed residents that the ministry has promised to leave space for farmers to water their livestock. Consequently, he noted that developments come with challenges and said that vandalism of the fence was a likelihood which should be guarded against. He urged traditional leaders and the police to be vigilant and safeguard the dam tourism project to ensure its survival and benefit. He assured the tourism minister that this was not going to be a white elephant and urged him to consider building an international conference centre near the dam to boost tourism. Source : BOPA