Celebrated comedian Eric Omondi has gotten himself into big trouble after his latest stunt in which he was filmed swimming naked with underage children. Omondi has particularly been harshly criticized by Consumer Federation of Kenya (Cofek) and the Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) who termed the video a 'disgrace'. In the video - which the comedian has since been pulled down from his Instagram account - a naked Omondi, while trying to hide his private parts with his hands, can be heard encouraging the children to keep swimming. On Twitter Cofek expressed their outrage over Omondi's shocking stunt saying he ought to be arrested and subjected to a medical test. THE VIDEO in which comedian Eric Omondi is totally nude and playing with naked children in water is a tragedy. He has crossed the red line of indecent exposure and must be arrested, and put under medical test to ascertain whether its deliberate or if he is unwell #RipoffKenya pic.twitter.com/faDzjk256b -- COFEK, Kenya (@ConsumersKenya) February 28, 2018 KFCB CEO Ezekiel Mutua likewise chided Omondi for his recent content considerations. "Eric Omondi's video is the evidence that some of our so called celebrities are vain and are obsessed with sexualisation of content at the expense of decency," Mutua wrote in one of his series of tweets about the controversial video. "How sad that anyone looks up to this clown for a role model!" Mutua posed. Eric Omondi's video is in violation of kenya Film Classification Board's classification guidelines under Cap 222 but also the Children's Act. The parents of minors should sue Eric for the gross abuse and indecent exposure of their kids. @InfoKfcb @Khagali_M @NellyMuluka -- Dr. Ezekiel Mutua (@EzekielMutua) February 28, 2018 Efforts by Nairobi News to reach Omondi over the issue proved futile although he has since posted an apology on social media saying his actions were not meant to offend anyone. "I have been a comedian all my life... Many are the times that I have errored... Today was one of those days. I have offended so many. I did not in any way intend to offend anyone." I have been a comedian all my life... Many are the times that I have errored... Today was one of those days. I have offended so many. I did not in any way intend to offend anyone... I AM DEEPLY SORRY FOR THAT... 🙇‍♂️ A post shared by Eric Omondi (@ericomondi) on Feb 28, 2018 at 11:38am PST