Yenagoa — Militants in the Niger Delta have vowed to resume fresh attacks on oil installations across the region if President Muhammadu Buhari fails to reinstate Brigadier General Paul Boroh (rtd.) as coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP). The militants from a coalition of nine groups under the aegis of the Reformed Niger Delta Avengers (RNDA), therefore, gave the President a four-week ultimatum to reinstate Boroh, who was sacked recently. They vowed to resume fresh hostilities in the region if the President failed to reinstate the former Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta after the expiration of the ultimatum. RNDA's leader, General Johnmark Ezonbi, said this yesterday via through a mail sent to newsmen in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, after a meeting of the groups.Ezonbi said it had become obvious that the Federal Government was toying with the destiny of the Niger Delta region, alleging that nothing tangible had been recorded since the coming of the present All Progressives Congress-led government at the centre.He said they found it curious that President Buhari sacked Boroh, even when he claimed that he (Boroh) succeeded in setting up a template for the smooth operation of the Amnesty Office. He warned that the militants' striking units across the Niger Delta had been put on the red alert to commence Operation Zero Oil to cripple the Nigerian economy in a well-coordinated destruction of all major oil pipelines after the expiration of the four-week ultimatum. "I want to warn that any intruder into our planned action in four weeks time if the Federal Government failed to reinstate Boroh would be severely dealt with. Our attack will reduce security agencies in the creek to nothing. "We are ready to take on anybody, as we have the instrumentality of warfare that will make the biggest military might to marvel at our coordinated attacks. We are ready to dirty our rivers and creeks with our oil. It is better we spill it than allow government use it to develop other parts of the country. "We are not unmindful of the roles of self-styled All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in the South-South region who have been sponsoring falsehood against Boroh for his refusal to bribe them to the detriment of the Amnesty Programme. "We have always known them to be anti-Niger Delta since the coming on board of the President Buhari-led government as they opposed the establishment of the Nigeria Maritime University (NMA), Okerenkoko," he stated. Ezonbi said Boroh had made efforts to put the Amnesty Programme back on track with the regular training of ex-militants and regular payment of monthly stipends."The RNDA declares Professor Charles Dokubo unfit for the job because of his age. He has long lost touch with happenings and realities in the creeks," he added.