Ado Ekiti — Ekiti State Governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, has described the Dapchi girls abduction saga as another clear evidence of failure of President Muhammadu Buhari, declaring that "the President cannot take credit for his own failure." The governor said there was no basis for the All Progressives Congress (APC) to applaud the president's "claim of bringing back home those innocent Dapchi girls that ought not to have been abducted in the first place if not for the government's laxity." The APC Deputy National Chairman, (South) , Chief Segun Oni, had congratulated President Buhari on the success recorded in the release of some of the girls of Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC), Dapchi, who were abducted on February 19. Oni, who described the release as an expression of the present administration's determination to secure the life of every Nigerian, expressed optimism that the remaining girls in captivity would soon be released. The Special Assistant to the Governor on Public Communications, Lere Olayinka said the governor addressed the press in his office yesterday, saying; "the abduction and return of the girls took place without resistance is a sign that the APC led federal government has lost the war against insurgency, the basis for which it came to power. "It is also a clear indication that Nigerians can no longer depend on the clueless government for their safety. "It is obvious that the APC federal government has failed to protect Nigerians, if its electoral promises is anything to go by and one wonders the basis for the party to applaud President Buhari's claim of bringing back home those innocent Dapchi girls that ought not to have been abducted in the first place if not for the government's laxity. "Most importantly, that the abduction and return of the girls took place without resistance is a sign that the APC-led federal government has lost the war against insurgency, the basis for which it came to power. It is also a clear indication that Nigerians can no longer depend on the clueless government for their safety. "The way and manner the Dapchi girls were abducted and returned is a clear demonstration that the federal government is fooling itself and not Nigerians as the whole process is shrouded in secrecy, raising more questions than answers. "The removal of military checkpoints in Dapchi ahead of the abduction, as confirmed by Governor of Yobe State, Ibrahim Geidam, clearly shows the complicity of the federal government and some individuals profiting from the whole saga."