Driving schools and drivers of public service vehicles will not be required to undergo mandatory vetting after the High Court suspended a directive issued by National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). In a ruling, Justice George Odunga suspended the proposed curriculum for training and testing of drivers, pending the hearing and determination of a case filed by Okiya Omtatah. The Judge further barred NTSA and the Ministry of Transport from disabling the E-citizen password of driving schools. "No prejudice will be suffered if the orders are granted. I hereby temporarily suspend the curriculum pending further orders," the judge said. NTSA had published public notices on its website and local dailies announcing a scheduled vetting. DEVELOP FACILITIES Among the issues contained in the notice are that each driving school should own not less than 1.7 acres of land upon which it must develop facilities and have infrastructure of a model highway, a well-equipped ICT teaching aids classroom with computers as well as projectors and a management structure. The Agency warned that failure to comply within the new rules in 14 days from March 20, would lead to automatic cancellation of the licenses. But Mr Omtatah moved to court, arguing that the Traffic (Driving Schools & Instructors) Rules 2017, were against public interest and could not be implemented by most schools. He said the rules were made without effective public participation, which according to him, was tantamount to harassing the driving schools and operators of public vehicles. Mr Omtatah argued that NTSA was making knee-jerk reactions whenever there was a public outcry over increased accidents on the roads. TEST DRIVERS He also argued that the agency did not have the capacity in law to test drivers since they did not have gazetted test centres or officers to do the job. Mr Omtatah argued that it was impossible for driving schools to implement the requirements of the new curriculum at once. He said that the imposition of the new curriculum meant that most driving schools had not transacted business since December 29, 2017. On Tuesday, NTSA had asked court to allow them negotiate with Mr Omtatah with a view to settling the matter out of court. The agency admitted that there was an issue it wanted to correct in the notice. The Judge directed the case to be heard on April 30.