Evicted BBNaija 2018 housemate, Iheme Faith Uloma, popularly known as Ifu Ennada, in the reality TV Show, BBNaija "Double Wahala," says she is a victim of rape. Ifu Ennada, who is also an actress, content producer and an entrepreneur stated this on her Instagram page, @ifuennada, on Tuesday refused to name the person who raped her and infected her with an STI. However, she claims the rapist is a top person in the entertainment industry. She also said that her new short story film, Tears Of A Broken Virgin, captures all that she went through during that period including depression. When I was in the Big Brother House emotions were raised when during a Truth or Dare game I said I'd not really had sex. People interpreted that as me claiming to be a Virgin. The truth is in 2016 I was raped by someone in the entertainment industry, before then I was a Virgin. This person also infected me with an STI... I was also threatened by this person and was very scared of social media's bashing with the usual questions of "what was she wearing!" " why did she go to his house ?"... so in all my sadness and depression I decided to tell the world what had happened to me using film as a medium. I was inspired to write and produce my film - Tears of A Broken Virgin. I got a lot of help from social media - people volunteered to work for me free of charge even my director - Benny Atagame Alli Though some parts of my film is fiction, the bulk of it was inspired by my story. The lead character's name is Ada which is a short form of my name Adanne- popularly pronounced as Ennada. Because of my sad experience I battled depression, developed trust issues and found it hard to connect with people especially men. I wanted to tell my story and also pass a strong message to rape victims and rapists... I hope I was able to do that with my film. I intend to expand this into a feature length film. I hope everyone out there is inspired to stand up against rape. My Virginity Story; Rape & Depression When I was in the Big Brother House emotions were raised when during a Truth or Dare game I said I'd not really had sex. People interpreted that as me claiming to be a Virgin. The truth is in 2016 I was raped by someone in the entertainment industry, before then I was a Virgin. This person also infected me with an STI... I was also threatened by this person and was very scared of social media's bashing with the usual questions of "what was she wearing!" " why did she go to his house ?"... so in all my sadness and depression I decided to tell the world what had happened to me using film as a medium. I was inspired to write and produce my film - Tears of A Broken Virgin. I got a lot of help from social media - people volunteered to work for me free of charge even my director - Benny Atagame Alli Though some parts of my film is fiction, the bulk of it was inspired by my story. The lead character's name is Ada which is a short form of my name Adanne- popularly pronounced as Ennada. Because of my sad experience I battled depression, developed trust issues and found it hard to connect with people especially men. I wanted to tell my story and also pass a strong message to rape victims and rapists... I hope I was able to do that with my film. I intend to expand this into a feature length film. I hope everyone out there is inspired to stand up against rape. ------------------------ You can watch the film using the link in my bio. A post shared by Ifu Ennada- Iheme Faith Uloma (@ifuennada) on Mar 19, 2018 at 11:45pm PDT While at the BBNaija house, she won the "Roc Da Mat" Challenge alongside her teammate, Leo. The challenge earned them a year's supply of Pepsi and 2.5 million Naira each as well as a trip to the forthcoming One Africa Festival in London