Swaziland champions, Mbabane Swallows, collected a historic debut away win in Zambia on Wednesday after they shot down Zanaco in their 1/16th round first leg at Nkoloma Stadium in Lusaka. Swallows had lost in all their last three visits to Zambia against Zanaco, Nkana and Zesco in 2013, 2014 and 2015 respectively. The win was also Swallows second away triumph in this year's competition after they slayed Bantu FC of Lesotho 4-2 in a preliminary round away in Maseru. But the visitors rallied to earn the historic win on the road after Maisha Chavda had put Zanaco ahead with a 32nd minute header. Swallows equalised in the 55th minute through their talismanic striker Felix Badenhorst who benefitted from a cross from the peerless Swaziland midfielder Tony Tsabedze to net his third of the campaign. Zanaco goalkeeper Toaster Nsabata was pulled out all the stops in the 84th minute to deny Sandile Hlatjwako as the home side held on hoping for a draw. But two minutes later, Richard McCreesh put Swallows ahead of the first time in the game. Zanaco, though ,then wasted a great chance to share the spoils when striker Felix Nyaende missed a stoppage time penalty to added to a miserable last 48 hours for Zambian clubs in continental action. This is after Zesco United lost 1-0 at home to ASEC Mimosa of Cote d'Ivoire on Wednesday in the 2018 TOTAL CAF Champions League in Ndola while on Tuesday, Nkana were beaten 3-0 away in Algeria by CR Belouizdad in the 2018 TOTAL CAF Confederation Cup. And now Zanaco must win away in Swaziland during the weekend of March 17 for them to maintain their ambitions of qualifying for a second successive group stage appearance. Results Tuesday, 6 March 2018 Al Ahly (Egypt) 4-0 Mounana (Gabon) Horoya (Guinea)2-1 Generation Foot (Senegal) Young Africans (Tanzania) 1-2 Township Rollers (Botswana) Etoile du Sahel (Tunisia) 4-2 Plateau United (Nigeria) Wednesday, 7 March 2018 Saint George (Ethiopia) 0-0 KCCA (Uganda) Zanaco (Zambia) 1-2 Mbabane Swallows (Swaziland) Wydad Athletic Club (Morocco) vs Williamsville AC (Cote d'Ivoire) Aduana (Ghana)1-0 ES Setif (Algeria) MFM (Nigeria) 2-1 MC Alger (Algeria) Gor Mahia (Kenya) 0-0 Esperance (Tunisia) AS Togo (Togo) 2-0 El Hilal (Sudan) Zesco (Zambia) 0-1 ASEC Mimosas (Cote d'Ivoire) TP Mazembe (DR Congo) 4-0 UD Songo (Mozambique) Difaa Hassan (Morocco) 1-0 AS Vita (DR Congo) Primeiro de Agosto (Angola) 1-0 Bidvest (South Africa) Rayon Sports (Rwanda) 0-0 Mamelodi Sundowns (South Africa)