After successfully hosting dancehall star Winky D in a memorable show last weekend, Montclair Hotel in Nyanga will maintain the party momentum this Easter holiday when talented jazz band, "Goodfellas" and energetic Ammi Jamanda take over the mission of serenading guests. Goodfellas, which was formerly known as "Too Open", will be carrying the mission in a familiar territory since the crew is originally from Manicaland province. The original "Too Open" rocked Mutare and performed in adjacent towns like Nyanga and Mutare before relocating to Harare where a younger generation of musicians replaced the founding members over the years. The new faces of "Too Open" later rebranded to "Goodfellas", but they have maintained their spectacular touch of music. They usually play old skool classics in addition to their own compositions. When they perform at Montclair over Easter holiday, the group is likely to serenade families with their soothing jams. Officials at the hotel said they have unveiled a promotion for families and couples that will run throughout the Easter holiday. They said all activities at the hotel will be covered under an affordable package they have prepared for guests and there will be various prizes to be won at fun events during the weekend. A spokesperson of "Goodfellas" said they are happy to spend Easter holiday in their home province and they will be representing the cultural side of their home area. "The assignment is an honour because we will actually be hosting visitors to our province. We know people will come from many parts of the country and even abroad to feel serene environment of the Eastern Highlands. We will be there to welcome them, entertain them and introduce them to our vibes through good music," said the group representative. On the other hand Ammi said she is happy to be part of what promises to be a fascinating holiday. "I have heard that there will be various fun activities for children and families. I will entertain them as they have fun. I enjoy spending time with families, giving them some good music. I promise a memorable Easter at Montcliar," she said.