Addis Ababa March 17/2018 Heads of regional councils for the Coordination of Public Participation on the Construction of GERD, vow to enhance efforts in mobilizing the public. Heads of regional councils told ENA that they would accelerate efforts in mobilizing the public towards the realization of the project. Aman Ali, Director of the office of Oromia regional council said that the office will enhance mobilizing the public in order to sustain their comprehensive participation in the construction of the Dam. He noted that the public's interest to support the construction of the dam has grown over time and this has demonstrated through their participation in fund raising, purchase of bonds, and financial donations. Aman said it will have significance on the nationwide effort in the fight against poverty and that is why the people in Oromia are contributing their part for the completion of the Dam. He said despite various natural and manmade challenges, the peoples in the region will continue to provide their unswerving financial support for the construction of the Dam. Fasika Getachew, Office Head of the SNNP regional council said the dam has created consensus among the people in the region and this has a huge role in the war against poverty. People in the region are eager to see the project completed, he said. He said their previous contribution and the welcoming ceremony held when the Renaissance Dam trophy reached in the region displayed this. "The Renascence Trophy toured in 135 woredas and over 20 town administrations in the region and people participated in welcoming the trophy without resorting to differences in age, gender, race and religion." Alemnesh Yebas, Director of the Office of the Benshangul Gumuz regional Council said the great renaissance dam is the source of peace in the region. The people of the region, where the dam is being built, have been contributing to the construction of the dam and will continue to do so in the future, she added. Ujulu Koy, Director Office of the Gambela regional council said the dam is an inspiration for the people of the region. The Renaissance Dam Torch reached the regions in October stimulated the public for more support and over 20 million birr is collected so far for the construction. Back then every official took the initiative to give 20 percent of his/her salary worth about 10 million Birr. Over 11 million Birr bond is also sold in woredas, he said. Director for Office of the Afar regional council, Usman Teha said the issue of the GERD is the issue of every individual in the country. The people in Afar region have a common understanding towards the construction of the dam like any other Ethiopian, Usman added. He said that the construction and participation of the people is high and promising and it will continue as well.