Migrating from one part of the world to the other end is a human attribute. History is in fact partly a tale of migrations and settlement all around the world. Modern immigrants are expected to fulfill some immigration requirements like visa and medical certificates for vaccinations against diseases that have spread around the world. These requirements vary from one country to the other and are governed by well known diplomatic treaties like the Vienna Convention. Peoples migrate from one country to the other for so many reasons. Seeking for a decent job to support one self and family is among the various reasons why young men and women migrate to foreign countries like for instance the Middle East. Pressure from families who are in most cases frustrated by their inability to support their families is one of the reasons that have continued to trigger illegal migration to foreign countries. The same psychological factors also apply to internal migration. Young persons mostly in tender age are lured by traffickers who give them false promises that will never be met. Illegal migration at the international level is mostly conducted by a chain of traffickers who transport the migrants in the most inhuman manner for instance by stowing them away in containers like commodities for export. They travel in a state of uncertainty and are subjected to fear of what they might encounter on their way. Why are the migrants paying an exorbitant amount of money to the traffickers while they can start a small business by the same amount of money they pay for the illegal traffickers? Some illegal migrants pay up to 100,000 birr for those who promise them a nirvana abroad. The longer they wait for any sustainable improvement in their livelihood the more frustrated they become and would do anything to get out of the country at any cost. They expend families' and their own fixed assets for a trip the result of which they cannot predict. Peer group pressure based on misinformation and wrong expectations tend to convince the use to take up all kinds of risks to seek for employment abroad. Sometimes, they get distorted information from few of those who managed to make it to foreign countries. These informants rarely disclose their own plights abroad and try to explain their own achievements which do not represent the realities of those who made it to foreign with all risks involved. Otherwise they talk about the ordeals they had faced only after the events. Illegal migrations to foreign lands, more particularly to the Middle East countries is also triggered by an artificial euphoria created by the hope to acquire consumer items in relatively cheaper prices. This is also triggered by consumer xenophobia among young women and men. Disruption in family fabric and break up of family bondage due to divorce resulting from multiple reasons further reinforces the desire to embark on illegal migration through human traffickers who are out to make money at the expense of the migrants. Family based feuds and disagreements caused by the multifaceted manifestations of poverty would in many cases add fuel to the already precarious psychological make up of young women and men who are permanently desperate. In the rural areas of northern and southern Ethiopia, lack of resources like land, livestock and other assets force women to find alternatives for employment in foreign countries. Nonetheless drought and food shortage exacerbates a traumatic feeling among the youth which in turn forces them to take any risk whatever the outcome is. This is also true in urban settling with high rate of unemployment. Soliciting for economic wellbeing in the tour triggered by the desire to ensure self employment oblige young women and men to unverified employment transactions that were basically prepared in the interests of employment agencies and clients based abroad. Language and cultural barriers between the countries from which the employers come and the traditional cultural values of the prospective employees often create huge level of embarrassment and cultural shock for the employees which are left at the mercy of the employing families. Life for housemaids in a number of Middle East countries is no less than a hell on earth. They are forced to work in a number of homesteads of the relatives of their employers with a totally non negotiable salary scales. Their families in Ethiopia on the other hand are over expecting financial support and the housemaids are caught up between exhaustion due to work overload and attempting to meet family needs. This creates a mental stress that continues unabated bringing in some level psychological irregularity. Since most of the workers are living and working in these countries without any legal residence and work permit, they live in a permanent threat of being imprisoned and ultimately deported. A number of housemaids who were unable to shoulder the mental stress have committed suicide by jumping from staircases. Others who managed to come home in safety are subjected to severe depression which further complicates their life and social relations. Some are already addicted to various types of narcotics and find it extremely difficult to come out of their ordeal. Although the government has already issued a comprehensive proclamation on foreign employment and in spite of the fact that Ethiopia has entered into agreement with various Middle East and Persian Gulf countries on legal handling of Ethiopian workers on duty abroad, a number of mechanisms for institutional support for the implementation of the proclamation are yet to be commissioned. What possible solutions can be suggested in streamlining the post traumatic mental effects on Ethiopians who try to earn their income without having the necessary legal documents at hand? Apart from the nationwide efforts that are being carried out by the government, families, civil society organizations and NGOs working on migration and refugees need to establish a common platform on which they can mobilize resources to provide medical and socio-psychological treatment for traumatized, sick and disabled persons who spent their life in agony in attempting to seek employment. Medical service providers could contribute their part by sponsoring counseling centers that specifically cater to the needs of citizens who were deported from foreign lands while a number of local and international NGOs can organize special income generating schemes that can provide occupational therapy for persons who suffer from various mental diseases and disorders like anxiety, mood disorders, psychotic and post traumatic stress. Above all, it is critically important to educate young women and men and build their confidence by convincing them that they can earn their living by working in their own country by using available resources to which they can have access. The phobia and illusion of assuming that life becomes better when you are away from your own country could develop into a trauma when all the expectations fall apart in the country of destination. The whole psychological causes and consequences of illegal migration either inland or illegal migration to foreign countries boiled down to the negative results of the subjective side of poverty. It stands to reason therefore to note that the consequences of illegal migration can be resolved only when abject poverty is defeated through the efforts of all concerned.