Molepolole — Bampoloki Phakalane is a 24-year-old self-taught music producer, who dreams of being every artiste's go-to producer. He clearly understands that with his dreams of being the heavyweight in the industry, he needs to be the finest too. This is something that he is aware of and is more than ready. Born and bred in Molepolole, Phakalane, who considers himself an all-round producer, has worked with few of the artistes in the country and wants to produce for more artistes. "I have worked with couple of the artistes that have been signed to my record label called Zone Empathy. Zone Empathy was registered back in 2014 and it has been able to sign four artistes; Keysta-Sisto, a duo by the name BVB, Macpherson and Million. "These are hip-hop and motswako artistes," he said. Phakalane revealed that he had also produced songs for other artistes that were not signed to his label such as Ntsimbi Skelem, who is a motswako sensation. He also engineered, mastered and produced couple of songs for Sparks Lehipi, PLK, Dj Casa featuring Young Amazing in 2017. "Working with such artistes opened my eyes and taught me a lot of things that I was not familiar with. They also challenged me to better my skills and be an open minded producer who is able to work with different music genres" he explained. The young producer further explained that he was a protégée of Dj Suffocate. "This is the man who took me under his wings and taught me some of the things that I did not know. He introduced me to some of the great artistes in the country such as Amantle Brown." he revealed. The self-taught producer stated that one day he would like to work with great artistes such as Drama Boy, Cassper Nyovest and AKA. "I say I will have made it in the next five years if I can be accorded the opportunity to work with them. These artistes are so passionate with music and I know that we would have a very informative and exciting time together in studio," he said. "I work at my own pace and set simple and achievable goals. I am building my own empire and I am taking my time doing that as I know that if I put myself under pressure I will end up making bad choices that could be prevented."Phakalane, who is also one part of BVB is a Kwaito artiste. When talking about his music journey, he revealed that he was an artiste before he was a producer. "I am about to release my own mixtape under my label. The mixtape will have different genres as a way to introduce myself to Batswana. The title of my mixtape will be God's Creation and it will be released sometime in June this year. The mixtape will be also available online. He said he would embark on educating Kweneng artistes on important issues that affect them in the entertainment industry. "People might say I dream big, but what is the point of dreaming small? I will accomplish my dreams and become the best in the industry I and would not have to introduce myself, but my work will do that on my behalf," he said. Source : BOPA