Chronic, Non Communicable Diseases (NCDs), particularly cardiovascular, hypertension, diabetes mellitus and Chronic Kidney Diseases (CKD) have now replaced the communicable diseases and become the leading public health threat and economic cost worldwide, consuming 80 percent of many health care budgets, as sources indicate. The cost of Renal Replacement Therapy (RRT) for total kidney failure weights much heavy on many health care budgets. According to the Ethiopian Kidney Association, over 1.5 million individuals around the world receive dialysis or have had kidney transplant. The worst of all, the disease is a 'disease multiplier.' It causes death on many people with diabetes, hypertension and predicts the development of a cardiovascular event. If detected early, CKD could be treated, thereby it is possible to reduce complications of the health problem as well as the medical process and healthcare costs. If not, there is a possibility of complications with causation of additional health problems such as stroke, peripheral vascular disease, coronary heart disease, and kidney failure. Taking into account the seriousness of the illness, its complicated cases, and the costly treatment, CKD, which was too often overlooked as part of global public health efforts, has now emerged as central to prevention efforts. Thus, every year the World Kidney Day is celebrated on the 8th of March globally to raise public awareness of the importance of our kidneys to our overall health and to reduce the frequency and impact of kidney disease and its associated health problems worldwide. This year, the Day was observed with a theme 'Kidneys and Women's Health. Include, Value, Empower'. With this same purpose, the Day is marked in Ethiopia. On the occasion, Ethiopian Kidney Association President Dr. Lissane Seifu said that CKD is becoming a serious public health problem in Ethiopia affecting hundreds of thousands of people regardless of age and sex. Mostly women and people above 30 are at high risk of kidney failure. CKD most likely affects people with family history of kidney disease, diabetes, blood pressure and people with overweight and women. Women are more vulnerable than their counterparts, with an average prevalence rate of 14 and 12 percent respectively. Particularly, some kidney disease, such as Lupus Nephropathy or Kidney infection typically affects women, he explained. "Thus, an intensive awareness creation activity regarding the disease is crucial, and we need to double our effort of prevention," said Dr Lissane. While he expounded the reasons why women are more likely to develop the chance of CKD than men, the President said: "the first reason is mostly related with pregnancy. Pregnancy related complication increase the risk of kidney disease per-eclampsia, a syndrome in which a defect of the implantation of the placenta affects normal kidneys including hypertension and proteinuria." Proteinuria is one of the three leading causes of maternal mortality. Post-partum hemorrhage or major bleeding after giving birth is among the causes that lead to acute kidney injury in young women. Thus, the risk of women exposition to kidney related disease increases. CKD affects approximately 195 million women worldwide and it is currently the 8th leading cause of death in woman, with close to 600, 000 deaths each year, he added. This shows that there is a clear need for higher awareness, timely diagnosis and proper follow up of CKD during pregnancy. On the other hand, Dr. Lissane further said: "Pregnancy might be a good opportunity for early diagnosis of CKD, allowing planning of therapeutic interventions." As to the association, diabetes indicates that high blood pressure, hypertension, obesity, age are among the factors that highly increase the risk of CKD for everyone. However these are also among the factors that are easily prevented with home cares. Kidney diseases are silent killers which would largely affect people's quality of life. Fortunately, there are several easy ways to reduce the chance of getting affected by disease. Everyone should have to check in regular manner whether he/she is at risk of kidney disease and needs actively follow preventive behaviors. Dr Lissane advised. "Keeping fit and active, maintaining regular control of blood sugar level, monitoring blood pressure, developing healthy eating habit and keeping weight in check, maintain healthy fluid intake, avoiding smoking, taking over the counter pills on a regular basis and getting check of kidney function timely are of useful mechanisms to prevent CKD," Dr. Lissane underscored.