The weatherman has said most parts of the country will continue to receive reduced rainfall throughout the week and over the weekend. While wet conditions will be sustained in most parts of the country, there will be a significant reduction in rainfall amounts between Saturday and Sunday followed by an increase on Monday, Kenya Meteorological Department Director Peter Ambenje said Wednesday. "Wet conditions will be sustained over most parts of the country with the Eastern half expected to be wetter than the Western half during the forecast period," Mr Ambenje said. LAKE VICTORIA The forecast offers relief to most Kenyans who will be celebrating the Easter holiday as Good Friday, through the weekend, are expected to remain dry, with rain picking up on Easter Monday. According to the latest seven-day forecast covering between March 27 and April 2, north-western counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu will have sunny intervals both in the morning and afternoon throughout the forecast period, with a chance of showers and thunderstorms over a few places on Monday afternoon. Most counties in the Lake Victoria Basin and those along the Rift Valley highlands will remain dry in the morning with showers in the afternoon except in South Nyanza and South Rift, which will have relatively heavier rainfall. SUNNY The counties that will have sunny conditions are Siaya, Kisumu, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Kericho and Bomet counties will, however, receive heavy rainfall in the afternoon over a few places, occasionally spreading to several places for the next five days. Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo will have morning rains over several places on Thursday, Friday and Saturday with afternoon showers expected over a few places throughout the forecast period apart from Sunday. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi will have cloudy early mornings during the period, giving way to sunny intervals for the rest of the morning, while the afternoons are expected to have showers.