SABC3's popular Presenter Search on 3 show is back for a fourth time, looking for men and women across the country who have the charisma, looks and telegenic smile to become TV presenters on SABC3 shows ranging from Top Billing and Expresso to Afternoon Express. Presenter Search on 3 is produced by Cardova Productions. Nationwide auditions will be held and filmed soon for the show that will start broadcasting on SABC3 on Thursday, 10 May at 19:30. People who think they have what it takes - bods, brains, and being able to walk and talk while not making it look as if you're reciting lines but really having a conversation with viewers - don't have to do anything but pitch up at the audition venues on the right date and fill out an entry form. SABC3 says the channel is not just looking for a presenter for a TV show - "We are looking for brand ambassadors that embody the spirit of SABC3 as a channel that shines the spotlight on our progress and aspirations". Do you have what it takes? Here is the type of person that SABC3 and Presenter Search on 3 is looking for: "Life in the spotlight will not only be filled with glamour and travel, the potential winners need to reflect the dynamic spirit of SA with a go-getter attitude that makes them own any room they walk into. They should be unapologetic about who they are, proud of their background and be able to represent South Africa on any stage be it local, regional or international." While it looks glamorous, the competition is looking for people who are serious about being and becoming TV presenters and who have an understanding of the hard work it requires behind the scenes, that you need to be a team player, work long hours and still be able to smile at the end of a long day even if things went wrong but the camera man needs you to deliver lines faultlessly in the last few minutes of natural sunlight left. Auditions will be taking place in Port Elizabeth, Cape Town, Durban and Johannesburg. Dress the part. Remember what Coco Chanel said: "Dress shabbily and they remember the dress. Dres impeccably and they remember the woman". Here's the audition dates for The Presenter Search on 3: - Port Elizabeth: Sunday, 25 March at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium- Cape Town: Saturday, 7 April and Sunday 8 Apri. Venue still to be confirmed- Durban: Saturday, 14 April and Sunday, 15 April at Durban Exhibition Centre- Johannesburg: Friday, 20 April and Sunday, 22 April at Wanderers Cricket StadiumThe presenter search has previously made stars and given new TV presenting opportunities to Simba Mhere, Jonathan Boynton-Lee, Zoe Brown, Danilo Acquisto and Jade Hubner, as well as Chris Jaftha and Mishka Patel. Source: Channel24