A 28-year-old woman and her four-month-old baby died after they were attacked by a crocodile at Shighuru village in the Kavango East region on Sunday. The incident occurred around 15h30. Chief inspector Edward Kavara said yesterday that they have identified the woman as Ndapenikwa Penighambeko Kanyemba. According to Kavara, Kanyemba had been washing clothes on the banks of the Okavango River with her baby tied to her back when they were attacked. The woman's body was found yesterday morning around 01h00. The police were still searching for the baby's remains by yesterday afternoon. Kanyemba's next of kin have been informed. A 55-year-old man died after setting himself on fire at the Shinyungwe village in the Kavango East region on Sunday. Kavara said the incident occurred around 12h20. The deceased has been identified as Sebastian Kamwanga, who was a cleaner at the Shinyungwe Youth Centre. "It is not yet known why he did it. He used petrol to set himself alight at home, and was burned beyond recognition," he said. Investigations into the matter continue. A guard of Shilimela Security Services at Otjiwarongo was found dead with a shotgun wound to the head in a suspected suicide on Sunday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Setson Ishekwa. Ishekwa (30) was found by a colleague on Sunday afternoon in a pool of blood inside a public toilet at the site he was assigned to guard. A shotgun belonging to the company was found at the scene, and is presumed to be the suicide weapon. Otjozondjupa region's police spokesperson, warrant officer Maureen Mbeha, said Ishekwa shot himself through the mouth. His next of kin have been informed. "The deceased did not leave behind any suicide note," she said, adding that no foul play was suspected. A 34-year-old man survived an accident in a burning truck on the road between Otavi and Otjiwarongo yesterday morning. Driver Johannes Nghishingwa, who was alone in the truck, told Nampa at the scene, he was transporting crates of empty bottles from Oshakati to Windhoek. Nghishingwa said he experienced extreme heat in the cabin of the truck when he left Otavi, and opened all windows to allow air circulation. About 30 kilometres outside Otjiwarongo, smoke started coming from underneath the truck. "I then reduced speed, and immediately there was fire all over the front section of the truck," he said. Nghishingwa then pulled the truck off the road and jumped out. The Otjiwarongo fire brigade could only rescue half of the truck's trailer. Nghishingwa suspected the fire was caused by mechanical problems. Mbeha confirmed the incident yesterday morning, saying the accident happened at approximately 06h00, some 30 kilometres north of Otjiwarongo on the B1 road. - Nampa