Abuja — After over two years of going back and forth, the trial of four members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) kicks off finally thursday with the prosecution calling in its first witness, an operative of the Department of State Service (DSS). Bright Chimeze, Benjamin Madubugwu, Chidiebere Onwudiwe and David Nwawuisi are standing trial on a three-count amended charges bordering on treasonable felony. The federal government had initially arraigned them alongside self acclaimed IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu now at large on a six count charge. The charges were later amended to 11 before Justice Binta Nyako quashed six of the charges for lacking merit. The defendants were first arraigned before a Wuse Magistrate Court, Abuja and later brought to the Federal High Court following an application by the prosecution challenging the jurisdiction of the court. However, the trial was frustrated over the years due to various applications challenging the charge, jurisdiction of court, including accusing both Justices Adeniyi Ademola and John Tsoho of bias, before the matter came to the current judge. Another issue of delay was the challenge of the court's decision to shield prosecution witnesses that would be given evidence in the case. However, following the severance of Nnamdi Kanu from the others, the government again amended the charge further to three. At their re-arraignment Tuesday, trial judge, Justice Binta Nyako, maintained that the trial would not be conducted secretly but that the identity of witnesses would be protected from the public. Consequently, the first prosecution witness, who is an investigation officer with the DSS, was referred to as Mr. A. B and was protected from the public view. Led in evidence by the prosecution counsel, Shuaibu Labaran, the witness said that although he can identify only Bright Chimezie (1st defendant) and Chidiebere Onwudiwe(2nd defendant), he has nothing to say about the 2nd defendant. The witness who have worked with the DSS for over six years, said in the cause of their investigation, it was discovered that Bright Chimezie (1st defendant) is a member of IPOB. He said investigations showed that Chimezie was the person that took the delivery of the container that contains the transmitter belonging to IPOB, on the instructions of Nnamdi Kanu from Lagos to Benjamin Madubugwu (3rd defendant) compound in Ubuluisiuzo Ihiala local government. Further in his testimonial, the witness revealed that the 1st defendant before his arrest, was the welfare officer of IPOB who had severally collected money from the group's sponsors outside the country, adding that the fund is partly used for the welfare of widows of slained IPOB members. Under cross examination by Chukwudi Igwe, counsel to the 1st defendant, the witness revealed that he had no idea that the defendant made statement at one DSS office in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, where he was arrested. He further stated that he didn't visit Uyo for further investigation after his statement at the Headquarter, adding that he didn't extend investigation to the wharf in Lagos. He said: "I did not extend my investigation to the Wharf where the container he took delivery of landed so, I wouldn't know whether the container was cleared in the wharf or smuggled in. "I didn't investigate whether the 1st defendant's name was in the Bill of lading. Igwe sought the leave of court to allow the witness read the statement in court and Justice Nyako granted him. According to the statement, the defendant was arrested on September 14, 2016, where he went to take up a job in Uyo. The statement read that the defendant didn't know the contents of the container until Nnamdi Kanu came back and the container opened. Also, the defendant stated that he received N1.5m from the sponsors from a Sky Bank branch at Apapa area, Lagos between July to August 2016 which he disbursed to the beneficiaries. Still under cross-examination, by the counsel to the 2nd defendant, Ejiofor P.A.N, the witness who described himself as a well trained investigator for over four years said, "I did not counter sign the statement of the defendant," adding that he was not aware that he was granted bail by a Federal High Court in Uyo, who declared his detention illegal. However, Justice Nyako adjourned to March 28 for hearing of bail application of the first defendant while the trial continues on May 21.