Art in all its forms has a power to reflect people's identity and value systems. Art is not only restricted to promote cultural values. It also portrays political system and level of tolerance among a society. In times where the Aksumite and Gondarine civilizations had been at their peaks, art was one of the tools used to show Ethiopia's might to the world. What is more, the political system of a given time could be deciphered by analyzing the art products of a society. Abebaw Ayalew is a historian and lecturer at Addis Ababa Universty, Ale School of Fine arts and Design (Ale). To him, Ethiopian artistic works are not only the reflection of our identity and source of tourist attraction, they had also been an instrument for political ideologies. Every nation has its own culture and symbol that reflects its socio-political values. Ethiopia is not different from this. And this has been reflected through artistic works. The visual art is a good example in this regard. "During the imperial times, the elite had a great value for art. In the 1950s and 60s, painting was at its height in Ethiopia. For this reason, visual art had been entertained in different forms and styles. In the times where Derg took control of the political office, the situation was reversed. Censorship and the then socialism principles had forced artists to focus on the political ideology rather than artistic values." Painters who have specialized in abstract painting style caught the attention of politicians, and their works had been interpreted in different forms. The then system had forced almost all artists to focus on socialism and its ideology. This had forced most artists to give up their passion or to leave their country, he argues. Abebaw says that currently there is a relative liberalism in visual art. But the problem is, most paintings are more of focused on the western painting style instead of the traditional one. They are also market-led. "They paint, having in mind to sell the products, to foreign communities, diplomats or artists." Ethiopian traditional paintings, architectural works and others are magnificent and unique by their nature, he says recommending as the trend should be reversed. Eyayu Genet, visual artist and lecturer at Bahirdar University, believes that all forms of arts have power to reflect one's identity and the value system of the country. In this regard, visual arts has a power to reflect one's national feeling in the form of nationalism. If we properly use it, art can be an instrument to promote peace and tolerance. However, if artistic view is blurred [and market-oriented], it could also be source of conflict for it will be interpreted into different forms, he indicates. According to Eyayu, nationalism can be reflected in artistic works. Visual art is one way. If a particular artist is engaged in artistic works that appreciate a certain groups at the expense of others, it may have an adverse effect on the peace and tolerance of that country. Once, there was a trend to reflect one's nationalism in the form of physical features of a particular place instead of focusing the people as a whole. For instance, during Derg regime, there were several artists who reflected their nationalistic view in their works. Associate Professor Berhanu Ashagre at Ale also agrees with the principle that visual art can be used as instrument to reflect one's identity and political ideology for a particular system. In most developed countries art comes first before their political, economic or social values. This is because of the reason that art has a power to direct their soico-political and economic life. He believes that if it is properly used, it gives the opportunity to improve people's lives. There are several talented Ethiopian artists with a power to draw paintings that further promote peace and tolerance. It as well will be used to constructively critique the socio-economic and political development , he notes, concluding as pertinent stakeholders need to work hand-in-glove to mushroom the fine arts field of study and make it contribute its share to the country.