London — An international African francophone gospel channel will be launched shortly and will seek to make an impact across Africa. Russell Southwood spoke to Allen Ikadi, CEO, HOSFO Group, the company behind GOSPLAY. How did the idea for Gosplay come about? The idea of Gosplay was born to answer a need in the Christian community. Namely, to propose a platform that would allow them to have access to the contents that convey Christian values, through gospel music, films with healthy values, reports, the cult of Celebration and documentaries. What will the channel do? Is it just a French channel? When is it launched? Gosplay will be a channel that will broadcast 24/7 content for a Christian and non-Christian audience who love healthy values. What kind of gospel content are you going to show? The channel will be French-speaking and its content will reflect its genre: worship, preaching, broadcasts, films and documentaries. Regarding the gospel music that will be broadcast, we will broadcast music in all languages Where will it be distributed in France and Africa? A: The channel is not yet launched for the moment. We are in our test phase play-out. We are counting on launching it shortly because we are waiting for the end of the test. As we mentioned above, the channel will broadcast, gospel music, movies with healthy values, documentaries, children's programs, preaching and other shows that will be produced by the channel. What is your digital strategy? Will you be available on mobile phones? Where and with which operators? Where do people get the app? The channel will be distributed in Europe, Africa and everywhere via iOS and Android applications, and in some parts of the world via cable or satellite operators. What's the business model of the channel? The channel's business model will be advertising and sale of distribution space to different customers or partners With which channels are you competing? We are going to be competing with Trace Gospel, Gospel Music TV and Emci TV. What are your growth plans over the next year to 18 months? The growth plan for next 18 months is to make sure we'll be distributed on Satellite and DTT in French-speaking and English-speaking Africa and also on several IPTV boxes. Who are the investors in your chain? For the moment, we are investors in the channel through the company HOSFO Group which is responsible for the GOSPLAY channel.