Arusha — The family of the hospitalized Chadema lawmaker Tundu Lissu says his return to the country was still uncertain even after this week's operation on his joints. "It is his doctors who have to tell us when to release him. For now I can't say when;", said Alute Mughwai, the elder brother of the firebrand opposition politician said here on Thursday. He told reporters that his young brother, who suffered near fatal gun shots during a mysterious attack in Dodoma on September 7th, may need more time to recover in a Belgian hospital. Mr Mughwai, who is a prominent advocate like his young brother, reiterated his call to well-wishers to contribute money to cover for the treatment of his young brother as it was likely he would spend more time in hospital. Lissu, an MP for Singida East on Chadema ticket and the Opposition Chief Whip in the Union government, was flown to Belgium on January 6th for specialized surgeries from the Nairobi Hospital where he was admitted since the September 7th attack. He went through the 19th surgery early this week at Leuven University Hospital at Gasthuisberg in Belgium, according to his elder brother. The injured legislator, who was shot several times near his residence in Dodoma in broad September 2017 daylight while attending the Parliamentary session there, has been undergoing surgeries aimed to speed up his recovery. Ever since the shock attack, Chadema has been soliciting for funds to cover the treatment costs. Lissu is also reported to have opened an account in Belgium where the funds can be channeled. Mr Mughwai added that the family was not aware of any progress made in the investigations on the assault of his young brother who was also the President of the Tanganyika Law Society (TLS). "The police promised us that investigations were underway. But it has already taken time before any sign of the culprits being apprehended", he said, noting that they were praying one day justice would prevail. At one time Chadema and human rights activists called for involvement of international crime busters in the investigations of Lissu's attack but the suggestion could not go well with the state organs.