Dar es Salaam — Tanzania does not have a magical solution for tackling the spread of dengue, a mosquito-borne tropical disease that is endemic in the country and elsewhere in the world. Experts believe a more holistic approach is needed. The viral disease was recently diagnosed in 11 people in Dar es Salaam. This is not the first time Tanzania experiences an outbreak. In 2014 a dengue fever outbreak was reported by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the country. It had spread to seven regions on the mainland and two regions in Zanzibar. There were 1,018 confirmed cases, out of a total of 2,121 who were suspected, including four deaths. The question that lingers is how can Tanzania completely stop the disease from spreading. In fact this is the question that remains unanswered in the minds of most Dar es Salam residents who spoke to The Citizen, even as efforts to carry out surveillance and educating the public are ongoing in the country. In 2014 a Dengue Fever Response Task Force was established by the Ministry of Health which continues to this day to hold regular meetings to review the situation and propose preventive and control measures. With support from WHO, Tanzania carried out advocacy for resources to implement the response plan, enhancement of surveillance, training of health care workers and laboratory staff on the management of cases and diagnostic, monitoring and integrated vector management. This week, when the disease was reported again, the government announced that it would strengthen the current measures in an effort to contain the spread of mosquitoes. Currently, there is no cure available for dengue. The only treatment option is through supportive care. Prevention is currently limited to vector control measures only. Can vaccine work? There are countries mulling control of the disease through vaccination. But, can this approach work for Tanzania? Not really, according to the country's Chief Medical Officer Prof Mohammed Bakari. "... [a vaccine] is not a recommended intervention for a country like ours," said Prof Bakari when he was asked by The Citizen if Tanzania was borrowing a leaf from other dengue-stricken countries which have invested in vaccinating people against it. Prof Bakari believes Tanzania is now right in focusing on eliminating mosquitoes through the use of long lasting insecticide treated bed nets (LLITN), larvae source management (LSM) including use of biolarvicides, indoor residual spraying (IRS). "Also environmental hygiene and public awareness and engagement are key," he says. The government this week issued a statement on the reported cases of dengue fever Dar es Salaam, urging the public to stick to ways of keeping away from mosquitoes that spread the dengue virus--the Aedes egypti. "This report should not shock anyone because there were similar reported cases in 2010, 2013 and 2014 and the vector-Aedes Aegypti still exists in our environment," said the statement. Vaccine approach in other countries Dengue vaccine has been used in Mexico. This is the one which was recommended by a World Health Organization (WHO) expert group for people living in areas with a high burden of dengue fever. This promoted national experts in several Latin American and Asia countries to consider its introduction for people aged 9 to 45. According to public health reports, the vaccine's most recent registrations come from Paraguay, Peru, Indonesia and Guatemala. India, one of the countries badly hit by the endemic disease is trying out another vaccine and there is hope this could be possible by the year 2019. This is according to drug maker Panacea Biotec, which has secured permission to conduct clinical trials for the vaccine in India. What can be the best approach for Tanzania? The Citizen interviewed the Acting WHO country representative to Tanzania, Dr Adiele Onyeze who corroborated with the view of Tanzania's Chief Medical Officer, Prof Bakari that a comprehensive approach is still the right way of dealing with the disease. Dr Onyeze says, "Just like any other disease what works is a comprehensive approach... .it is the best way to tackle any disease including dengue... ." "... we know that there is also malaria vaccine, but most of the focus now is not on the vaccine alone but there are tablets and bed nets and making sure that malaria is properly treated," he says. The role of the media Dr Onyeze believes there a surveillance system which help to track the disease but the media can play a key role in public awareness. "We believe that the media can help contribute information in the reporting system... one of the issues that we also know is that sometimes what media may report a case as dengue while it could be malaria or any other disease, which is why there is a process for confirmation of any of this reported," he cautions. "What we urge is that, the media might give indication to what is happening... the rest should be left to the experts in the ministry to confirm whatever disease, and not draw panic into the communities," he suggests. The role of the media might be to pick up these signals and let the experts in the health sector to confirm, and let ministry and WHO take on appropriate actions. "As WHO, one of our major role is ensuring health security to everybody... like what happened with Ebola, our role is to ensure if there is any if this diseases, it can be contained quickly so that it does not spread more, so I think the role of media is useful in this," he says. How is dengue transmitted? A mosquito transmitting the disease reproduces settles in water outside or inside human settlements. The larvae may grow in the houses before being spread. But, unlike, the malaria vector, the mosquitoes spreading dengue bite people during the day especially in the morning and evening.