Kinshasa, 26th March 2018 – RAWBANK is named the Best Bank in the Democratic Republic of Congo by Global Finance for the fourth year in a row. Global Finance, the prestigious US magazine headquartered in New York and specialized in financial news, published its 25th ranking of the world’s best banks presenting them by region and by country for the year 2018. In the Best African Bank category, RAWBANK is voted the Best Bank in the Democratic Republic of Congo for the fourth year in a row, thus confirming its longstanding commitment to excellence. While the group only started with ten employees back in 2002, the bank now has a 1,600-strong workforce and more than 90 points of sale (branches and advanced counters). Committed to complying with the best international standards, RAWBANK is rated by Moody's (B3), is certified ISO / IEC 20000 and ISO / IEC 27001 and has established financing partnerships with several international donors (Proparco, IFC, Shelter Africa ...). "This international recognition by Global Finance is the culmination of the excellent work of all RAWBANK teams whose success is the result of our entrepreneurial spirit and our unique business approach focused on being as close as possible to realities on the ground. These are the values that will continue to guide us in achieving the great ambitions we have set for the future, faithful to our commitments to finance the Congolese economy and to accelerate financial inclusion ", Thierry Taeymans, RAWBANK’s Managing Director. The Global Finance Award is the result of a selective process by the magazine's editors, in consultation with corporate financial executives, bankers and banking consultants, as well as analysts throughout the world. Objective criteria considered included: growth in assets, profitability, geographic reach, strategic relationships, new business development and innovation in products. Subjective criteria included the opinions of equity analysts, credit rating analysts, banking consultants and others involved in the banking sector. The Global Finance prize rewards the innovations and good results of DRC’s leader in the banking sector, which were achieved despite a changing and sometimes difficult global and national economic context. Being number one in the Congolese banking sector, RAWBANK provides its clients (individuals, enterprises, corporates) with the most up-to-date techniques and the latest products available in the various banking and finance businesses. In 2017 for example, RAWBANK has greatly expanded its digital offering, particularly with IllicoCash and Rawbank online, a strategic component which the group will continue to develop. By building its future on solid foundations that are internationally recognized by awards such as the one given by Global Finance, RAWBANK is driven by a steady and a strong development in a sector where the annual growth rate is estimated around 25%. About RAWBANK: Founded in 2002 by the Rawji Group, which has been established in the Democratic Republic of Congo since the beginning of the 20th Century in the trade, distribution and industry sectors, RAWBANK is the country’s leading bank, having been the first to exceed $ 1 billion in total balance sheet in 2015. With 1,600 employees and more than 90 points of sale (agencies and advanced counters), RAWBANK is rated by Moody's (B3), is certified ISO / IEC 20000 and ISO / IEC 27001 and has entered into financing partnerships with several international donors (Proparco, IFC, Shelter Africa...). Safety, profitability and sustainability are RAWBANK's operational priorities in consolidating its growth strategy, particularly for individuals and the private sector. For more information on the Global Finance Magazine ranking: https://www.gfmag.com/awards-rankings/best-banks-and-financial-rankings/ Press contacts: Rawbank - Direction of Economic and Social Performance Email : contact@rawbank.cd