International Women's Day, March 8, 2018 What is WEI? Women's Economic Imperative (WEI) is a global, collaborative initiative to promote women's economic empowerment, built on four pillars: financial inclusion, digital inclusion, entrepreneurship and advocacy. WEI has been founded in response to the Call to Action of the United Nations' Secretary-General's High-Level Panel on Women's Economic Empowerment. WEI aims to drive concrete, sustainable and measurable progress for women in the economic sphere, whether in the workplace or as entrepreneurs. WEI is committed to empowering women as economic actors globally, by: • Leveraging individual and collective investments in women's economic empowerment to catalyze transformative action; • Engaging in strategic partnerships and mobilizing resources to implement initiatives that deliver results; • Advocating for changes in norms, laws, and policies that affect women as economic actors; • Spotlighting and fostering women's leadership, entrepreneurship & innovation in the economic sphere. Launched on International Women's Day 2018, the WEI platform mobilizes a group of Champions whose inspiring work in diverse fields ensures that women who are working to economically empower themselves have a powerful global network of allies. WEI focuses on supporting women entrepreneurs who are venturing in traditionally male-dominated spheres, providing them with technical and financial support. WEI is particularly interested in initiatives that are innovative, disruptive and sustainable. A large number of partners and sponsors have decided to support WEI in its drive towards ensuring the economic empowerment of women around the world. #WEIForward Social Media Campaign On March 8, WEI kicks off with the #WEIForward social media campaign, mobilizing champions of women's economic empowerment & partners from across four continents. In this campaign, people from across the world will voice their commitment to women's economic empowerment as the #WEIForward. WEI Founder & Board of Directors: Margo Thomas, PhD – Founder & CEO Amadou Mahtar Ba – Chair of the Board Viola Llewellyn – Secretary Fiza Farhan – Board Member Lindsey Nefesh-Clarke – Board Member Joannes Paulus Yimbesalu  – Board Member William S. Reese – Board Member Yonette F. Thomas – Board Member For further information about WEI & the #WEIForward social media campaign, please send us an email at: contact@weiforward.org Connect with us at: WEIForward.org