Whenever "Yekatit 23" comes, that is Corresponding to March 2nd, there is a feeling of pride and dignity among Ethiopians as we celebrate the famous victory. This year it is the 122nd anniversary that we are marking and its significance and implications on the subsequent history of our country and people cannot be overstated. We need to study so many aspects of that famous chapter of our modern history and so many revelations still await us. The French say even after so many books have been written on Napoleone Bonaparte, (d 1821) they are still studying the life and times of this famous leader! Adwa was a threshold in the long history of our country, and in a way it was a watershed even in the history of the struggle of peoples for dignity and sovereignty. Not many facets of the battle were researched well yet, and there are so many dark details. The issue that I want to raise here is 'how much does the current generation of youths know about 'Adwa', the historical premises, the background, the preparation, the battle and the aftermath. We also need to know the various repercussions of the battle, at the local level, at the regional level, as well as at the international level, above all in the context of the fight for self-determination. We need to study it from various perspectives. Those were the years of attempt by colonialists to conquer the African beaches and try and amass resources. Those were the years of expansion by Europe. Those were the years of power struggle in Europe among the various countries. Ethiopia was a country that had a long history of internal battles but at the same time it also had its share of resistance struggles against foreign aggression. Egyptians, Sudanese, Ottoman Turks, Portuguese and various other forces tried to influence if not subdue and dominate Ethiopia. It was the days of the aftermath of the efforts of kings Tewodros and then Yohannes who were engaged in consolidating their power and creating a modern day country. Instabilities abounded as internal security issues were rife while the exposure to alien aggression was real. In fact the previous two rulers of the country, Tewodros and Yohannes both found their death trying to come to terms with the safety and security of their land and peoples. They were martyrs. Menelik had the huge heredity of conserving the sovereignty and dignity of the people and territory of the country. He had to face internal problems and issues while at the same time he had to deal with the external threats. He had his advisors both from the local chiefs as well as his foreign friends. He was a rather enlightened and open king who unlike many of his predecessors was ready to adopt more modern inventions and lead his people by example. When he was trying to open up his country to positive foreign influence, he had to confront the expansionist schemes of Italy. In his anxiety to foster good relations with many European powers, he left his doors open for negotiations and pacts, but one of those fixed with Italy was bound to be the 'seed of contention' and eventually the immediate cause of conflict. The interpretation of the famous Treaty of Wuchale, as it was to be known in history, was the cause. Article 17 states Ethiopia's relations with foreign countries will be determined by Italy. But this was not a true reflection of the Amharic version which was presented to the Emperor. Ethiopia's sovereignty of choice is intact whether to consult or not with any power. The Italian version was made to imply Ethiopia as a 'protectorate' of Italy. Ethiopians have always valued as priority number one their sovereignty, their independence and their freedom. They never bargained nor compromised over these values. They were ready to live for these values as were equally ready to die for them. The long history of Ethiopia is testimony to this fact. The dictums and proverbs of the land all witness to this particular trait. 'No compromise on one's wife, no compromise on one's country!' Menelik understood that dragging the country to war against the Italians would present an enormous challenge. He tried to use all his diplomatic channels and skills to avoid catastrophe. But the late comers to 'the scramble for Africa', the self proclaimed European power of Italy wanted by all means to imitate what other European powers such as England and France had done. The pretext of the interpretation of the Treaty of Wuchale was for them good enough for expansion. Italy however did not calculate that Ethiopia was not a 'soft target' for any one and it did not anticipate what was to follow. Hence, it mounted a military campaign planning to expand its governorate from the northern shores of the Red Sea to the internal plateau. Already, they had their stronghold in Somalia and Eritrea and they thought they would have easy conquest in Ethiopia. It never dawned on them that they could face a set back. Menelik gave them the time to reflect and make changes in their foreign policy, but they considered it an insult, and insisted with their adventure. Hence, Menelik had no choice but to tell the truth to his people and alert them. He declared the preparation for the war. It was a huge effort, unprecedented in the history of the country; and the way the emperor and his entourage handled the entire preparation was later to result a masterpiece. For a country with the level of Ethiopia, to meticulously prepare for war and then wage it against a highly superior, better trained and mechanized army at a place very distant from his capital city, was a big deal. It was later to be recorded as an immortal victory shining for generations to come. On the other hand, the kind of defeat Italy had to succumb to was never to be forgotten. It heralded the victory of a black people over whites. It was the pride and inspiration of the downtrodden people of the world, a victory for all those who resisted any form of domination of a people over others. Indeed, Adwa changed perspectives, Adwa changed mentalities. History was never to be the same as in the pre-Adwa days. Menelik had changed the history of the world, the history of Ethiopia and the history of the people of African origin. What was considered inconceivable in pre-Adwa days was refuted. That is why Adwa is considered as 'the pride of Africa', the pride of the black people of the world. The fact that this historical episode is one that belongs to Africa has given birth to the idea of a University to be built at Adwa bearing the name of the battle. There it would carry out all sorts of researches that has to do with the battle and other related issues and as a continental university with exceptional academic staff, it would help better appreciate the story by all Africans.