Ugandan socialite Zari Hassan loves social media. She often shares almost every aspect of her life on her social media platforms. She tries to live up to the Kim Kardashian lifestyle. Following her break up with Tanzanian boyfriend, Diamond Platnumz, the mother of five has confirmed that she will not be in a relationship any time soon. She is starting a reality TV show which will be showing on her Instagram account. "I have not really had time to think about the break up because I am busy shooting my TV show which will be airing soon," she told BBC Swahili in a recent interview. Zari previously had a reality show showing on UBC TV called "Boss Lady." It was not a hit though. Former Miss Rwanda Aurore Kayibanda engaged Miss Rwanda 2012 Aurore Mutesi Kayibanda must be the happiest woman right now. Why? The beauty queen got engaged to popular photographer, Egide Fox. Egide Fox, real name Egide Mbabazi, is a Rwandan US-based photographer who has been in a relationship with Kayibanda for long. This week, he took their relationship to another level and proposed to the former beauty queen. Mbabazi proposed to Kayibanda at the Grand Canyon National Park in Las Vegas, Nevada. Sources say that the beauty queen was completely taken by surprise as Mbabazi had told her that they were going for a photo shoot. In the pictures shared by their friends on Instagram, it is easy to see just how surprised Kayibanda was. Kayibanda also shared a short video clip on Instagram showing the two boarding a red helicopter to the park. There is no news about when the wedding will take place or if it will even be held in Rwanda but we wish them all the best. Eric Omondi speaks out on controversial video Popular Kenyan comedian Eric Omondi has single handedly kicked up a storm on social media after a video emerged of him playing butt naked with young boys at a river in Turkana. The video that has been termed as a 'tragedy' has Omondi in the nudes playing with seemingly happy children in the water. The comments immediately came in thick and fast with some questioning what the ruckus was all about. Gospel rapper Juliani, for instance, was of the opinion that what the kids and Omondi were experiencing was "true freedom". In his response, the comedian stated that he had erred in judgment, offended so many and that his actions were not meant to offend anyone. "I have been a comedian all my life... Many are the times that I have errored... Today was one of those days. I have offended so many. I did not in any way intend to offend anyone." I am a music dynamo, Jose Chameleone challenges Bebe Cool Singer Jose Chameleone has come out on the fast spreading word about his much anticipated battle with fellow Ugandan artiste Bebe Cool. Chameleone has not ruled out the possibility that the battle could actually take place. In a long statement he noted "... I remain the undisputed. I have heard of the battle with my big brother though no one has come forward to put the deal on table. I am a music Dynamo and whosoever wants to battle should know that that's the day you are going to be buried before your disciples!! And I will put a cross on your grave as I engrave R.I.P. I will only enter that anticipated showdown if there is no time limit. He who runs out of music, goes home." Jose Chameleone seems ready for what could be the biggest artiste battle of the decade. Rapper AY weds Rwandan girlfriend Tanzanian rapper Ambwene Allen Yessayah alias AY wedded his Rwandan girlfriend Remy in Dar es Salaam over the weekend. The two were seen in Kigali on different occasions before the wedding. Rapper and fellow Tanzanian, Mwana FA, was the best man and some of the people on the guest list included radio personality Shaffie Weru, fashion designer Fundi Frank, producer Hermy B, among other celebrities. The two are rumoured to have started the relationship in 2008 but the rapper only confirmed their relationship a year ago. AY is rumoured to have dated Kenyan musicians Avril and Amani. The wedding comes after a colourful traditional wedding a fortnight ago at Golden Tulip Hotel in Kigali, Rwanda. AY is known for hits like Zigo and Habari Ndo Hiyo. We wish them the best.