Organisers for the 18th edition of Harare International Festival of Arts (Hifa) have announced that more than 10 foreign festival directors are coming to this year's edition to scout for local talent. The festival is pencilled to run from May 1 to 6 at the Harare Gardens and surrounding venues and will run under the theme 'We Count'. Speaking at a press conference yesterday, Hifa executive director Maria Wilson said foreign festival directors are coming to look at how they run the show. She also announced their partnership with CABS bank. "I can safely announce that this year we will see some foreign festival directors from different countries who will come witness how we do it and at the same time identify some of our artistes who can participate in their festivals. A lot has been happening, talking to these directors who are so keen to come to Zimbabwe," she said. She said there are also foreign acts who have also confirmed their participation. "We are still working with our categories from craft, electronic, dance and music. On the craft centre, these are the people who are making a living out of their artifacts and we encourage not only cooperate support but Hifa fans too. So far we have a group from Holland called Bally-Holland dancers, South Korea dance outfit which is an all-female cast drummer and dancers called Drumcats are also coming. South Africa's Beatenberg, a pop music band and the revered Afro-fusion group, Freshlyground, are billed to perform," she said. CABS deputy managing director Mehluli Mpofu said is an honour and privilege to partner with Hifa. "As CABS, we are proud to be associated with this festival of art and culture that has continued to transform lives in Zimbabwe and across the continent. "We are delighted to once again host the opera gala night which has become an integral part of the festival. The CABS opera gala showcases an evening of stunning and strong voices of internationally renowned opera stars, mixing humour with theatrical drama and exquisite singing," he said.