The Fashion and Design Institute's (FDI) annual Open Days, aiming to give an overview to the public, more specifically students who are currently in the process of identifying prospective universities and institutions for their tertiary studies, was launched yesterday by the Minister of Industry, Commerce and Consumer Protection, Mr Ashit Kumar Gungah at the Institute in Ebène. In his address, Minister Gungah pointed out that in a technological-driven world, the economic sectors in Mauritius require creative minds to add value to innovative products and services. Thus, students opting to study at the FDI will have the opportunity to have hands-on-experience as well as develop their creativity, innovative skills and talents, he pointed out. With regard to improving the services of the FDI, Mr Gungah highlighted that initiatives are being undertaken for the Institute to achieve the status of an awarding body. The inclusion of the jewellery centre under the aegis of the FDI is in the pipeline and a postgraduate course is also being designed, he announced. As regards Government's commitment in enhancing the quality of life of the younger generation, Minister Gungah spoke of WIFI hotspots that have been set up in several regions across the country to enable young people to have free access to internet. He also referred to the Metro Express as a Project which will modernise the public transport system and at the same time ease the lives of the youth in the coming years. Moreover, the Minister called on the youth to work hard and put concerted efforts to attain success in their future careers and to contribute to the socio-economic progress of Mauritius. Open Days and FDI The Open Days, being held till 31 March 2018, will enable students to interact with the management and staff, regarding the various training and professional development programmes that are being offered at the FDI. The Institute was launched in September 2009 with the objective of developing creativity, innovation and talent so as to sustain the Mauritian Design and Manufacturing sector in the long term. It aims to be a regional hub for design education and research that shapes lives and society. The FDI offers courses in the field of art and design, fashion design, graphic design and interior design. Over the years, the Institute has shown steady growth in terms of enrolment of students, programmes and trained manpower. The courses offered are: Foundation Diploma in Art & design; Extended Diploma in Art and Design; Higher National Diploma Fashion & Textiles; BA (Hons) Fashion & Textiles (Top-up) Higher National Diploma Graphic Design; Higher National Diploma Interactive Media; BA (Hons) Graphic Design with Animation (Top-up); Higher National Diploma Art & Design; BA (Hons) Art & Design (Top-up); and, BA (Hons) Interior Design.