AS a woman who has never carried a pregnancy to full term, a simple question about babies is a heartbreaking reminder for Maura Amagola and her recurrent history of miscarriages. During an interview at Ongwediva a few weeks ago, Amagola (33) told The Namibian that having nine miscarriages was an agonising experience for her. Now pregnant for the 10th time, she has become hopeful after reaching her seventh month - the closest she has come to full term. Thirteen years of hoping and crying resulted in Amagola resenting herself since her first miscarriage when she was 20 years old. "I first fell pregnant when I was 20, and in the fourth month, I lost my first baby. After my third pregnancy, my family thought I was inducing abortions. My mother sat down with me, and told me not to do it [abortion], but I told her I do not know what was happening. I got married and got pregnant again, and miscarried for the fourth time. This time, my husband demanded to know from the doctors what was happening. We could not get a straight answer," said Amagola. She added that although her husband was supportive, other family members had their own beliefs to explain her miscarriages. Amagola said her mother believed the reason she was having the miscarriages was because she is not giving her cervix time to heal from the previous miscarriage. Other family members attributed it to witchcraft. "I had so many blood tests done, sonar sessions, and had my uterus cleaned so many times. But nothing wrong was observed. When I got to my eighth miscarriage, watching my peers getting pregnant and having babies, I felt like crying, and was embarrassed. It got so acute that I started lying to the nurses at the hospital. Whenever they asked me how many times I had fallen pregnant, I would bring down the number from eight to three or four," admitted Amagola. According to specialist obstetrician and gynaecologist Dr Siemefo Francois at the Ongwediva Medipark, Amagola must have an incompetent cervix. He said during pregnancy, after about 14 to 20 weeks as the baby grows and becomes heavier, it presses on the cervix. (Please note that Dr Francois did not examine Amagola, and was responding after her condition was explained to him). "When this happens, the pressure of the baby, especially when the cervix is weak (also called weakened cervix), causes the cervix to open before the baby is ready to be born, and this leads to a miscarriage or premature delivery," he stated. Senior nurse at the Ongwediva Health Centre, Paulina Fillemon, who has 35 years of nursing experience, said she has come across many women who have gone through what Amagola is going through. "Most fall in a depressive state, while others give up. We were told about her situation before she was referred to the centre, and we have been keeping a close eye on her. I am proud to say that we are making progress as she is in her seventh month now," Fillemon said. She explained that before pregnancy, the cervix, which is the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina, is normally closed and rigid. As the pregnancy progresses, and as the woman prepares to give birth, the cervix gradually softens, decreases in length (effaces) and opens (dilates). If a woman has an incompetent cervix, her cervix might begin to open too early, causing her to give birth prematurely. Amagola said her incompetent cervix journey came to an end when she lost her ninth pregnancy and a doctor at the Oshakati State Hospital discovered a small tumour in her uterus. "They called it a myoma. After it was removed, they cleaned my uterus, and I was discharged. Since then, I had been bleeding continuously, so I went back to the hospital and had another surgery. This time, the doctor told me the operation was, successful, and it really was because today I am seven months pregnant," Amagola beamed.