The on-going Big Brother Naija reality TV show continues to take interesting twists and turns which have kept viewers and housemates on the edge. With less than three weeks to the grand finale of the controversial TV show and with the aim of switching up the tempo of activities in the Big Brother house, 'Biggie', the invisible controller of the house, announced the dissolution of all disciplinary strikes meted out on housemates in a bid to reset activities in the game. This means that CeeC, Lolu and Tobi who had two strikes each for flouting the house rules, now have clean slates to continue in the game. With dramatic lighting and ninjas flanking the 'throne', housemates were asked to line up and queried on their experiences in the house thus far. After querying each housemate on their excesses in the house so far, and announcing that there was no eviction for the night, 'Biggie' gave the housemates a choice to exit the game with N45million as severance pay, an offer none of them had the guts to take on. In a latest development, evicted housemate, Ahneeka, in an interview with Olorisupergal TV, predicted with confidence that Miracle, will be the only housemate to cart home the ultimate prize of N45million. In her opinion, Miracle is the most eligible housemate for the prize because he is the strongest contender. "I see Miracle winning the show, I see him emerging the winner. I always nominated him for eviction when I was in the house because I saw him as a strong contender. When I was in the game I was all about me but now that I'm out I see he has what it takes. Miracle is a very smart person, he is funny in a weird way, I think he is determined enough to reach the N45million, I think he might get it." She also thinks Tobi may be the only strong contender to put Miracle on his toes. "Tobi is also a strong contender because I see that he is now more open so that might get him closer to winning the N45million." However, Khloe and Anto are back to the house by popular demand, having snuck in at 3am on Monday to mixed reactions from the housemates. Eleven housemates are currently competing for the ultimate prize.