Nominees for the 2018 South African edition of the Zimbabwe Achievers Awards (ZAA) have been announced with the winners set to be revealed at a gala dinner in April. Organisers of the high-profile event announced over 60 nominees across 14 categories on Wednesday with voting opening on Thursday 1 March for a month. Winners will be revealed at a gala dinner scheduled for 7 April in Sandton, Johannesburg. WorldRemit, Fastjet, Africa Medallion Group and Zimbabwe Consolidators were unveiled as the sponsors for the forthcoming edition. ZAA South Africa's event director Lawrence Dube said the committee were happy to welcome on board three prominent brands who have a strong business and community presence, both nationally and internationally. He added that the diverse partnerships would only reinforce an already growing relationship with the Zimbabwean community on an International scale. WorldRemit, who are continuing to expand their services, have recently entered into a commercial partnership with top-tier English football side Arsenal, becoming the first official online money transfer partner of the Premier League club. Chief Executive Officer Ismail Ahmed said they were proud to be partnering ZAA once again and building on the same kind of community growth and engagement they have done previously. "Our association with the Zimbabwe Achievers Awards indicates our joint vision to empower the various coteries or groups we work with and to be part of the global work they are doing in inspiring and connecting Zimbabweans across the globe," he added. The awards ceremony, which includes a three-course dinner, will take place at the Hilton hotel. Set among landscaped gardens and suburban surroundings, the venue is located just north of Johannesburg in the city's business district. Tickets are also on sale; and the comprehensive three-tier ticket campaign, introduced last year, has been implemented once again in response to positive feedback received about the special offer on tickets last year. They are being sold exclusively for R650. Meanwhile, nominations for the UK edition closed on Wednesday at midnight and nominees will be announced at a press conference in London on 8 March. First introduced in the UK in 2010, ZAA has gone on to become a highlight on the community calendar, internationally; bringing together business leaders and innovators from all sectors to celebrate the successes and attainments of people of Zimbabwean heritage living in the UK, South Africa, the United States and Australia. There are also plans to take the awards to Canada and Zimbabwe soon. SA 2018 Nominees: Large business of the year Diaspora Infrastructure Development Group DIDG W Consulting Asakhe Consulting engineers Small to Medium business of the year Grown Organics Magetsi Amagetsi Gugu Intimates Laureate Le Beauty Training Strategies Migration Services Female Entrepreneur Gugu Nkabinde - Gugu Intimates Lorraine Tatenda Marira - laureate le beauty training Lorraine Sibanda - Michiko PR, Image & Consulting Siphilisiwe Madonko - Pea's Kitchen Susan Granger - Nubian Queen Nyakalo Valela - The Moisture Factory Male Entrepreneur Marcus Rance Munyaradzi Nkomo Tapiwa Njikizana Bakani Ngulani Simbarashe Chimhandamba Professional of the Year Tinashe Nyamudoka - Somelier the Test Kitchen Sibonile Dube - Coca Cola Head of Communications Chipo Mushwana- alpha code head of ecosystem development & strategy Mandla Nkomo- Country Director Solidaridant Network Southern Africa Tsitsi Hatendi-Matsika -Head of Retail Investment at Barclays Africa Group Ltd Community Champion Anele Ndlovu-Zim SA forum Shepherd Wazara - Youth leader/Trainer Dr Cindy Van Zyl- Medical doctor Phephelaphi Dube- Director Centre for Constitutional Rights Tawona M Ranganawa Community Organisation Zim Global Women Youth Village Zimbabwe Young Women in Business Zim-SA Forum Academic Excellence Dr M Chapwanya- UP Dr Colin Tinei Chasi -UJ Dr. Musawenkosi Donia Saurombe Rodwell Makombe - UFS Gwaqwa Professor Tumai Murombo Media Personality Ancillar Mangena - Forbes/CBNC Dorriane Sithole -Soweto TV/Havilla designs Kim Jayde -MTV Nkululeko Chunky Phiri - Actor Sports Personality Evans Rusike Maritzburg FC striker George Chigova - Polokwane city keeper Elvis "Bulawayo Bomber" Moyo - UFC fighter Biselele Tshamala- sharks & Zim Sables Young Achiever Shamiso Kumbirai - Engineer and Global Sharpers Representative Tyrone Magwagwa- Speaker/Author Pauline Marere- Miss Universities SA Rutendo Samakande- Head girl St Thithians /Tour de maths Paris contestant Tinashe Chipako - Winner 2018 SA Institute of Civil Engineers Music Artist Yaka Yaka Nadia Nakai Bekezela Queen Anna Eleven Mr Kamera Event of the Year Oliver Mtukudzi Live in Capetown - Xtratime Entertainment Financial Indaba - Johannesburg - Emergent Capital Partners Jah Prayzah live in Johannesburg - Xtratime Entertainment The Diaspora 1st edition - 263 nights People's Choice Oliver 'Najesca' Siamboloka Nadia Nakai Batsirai Masvinge Harold Moyo T'mula Winston Blujay 'the instigator'