The first ever CAF Women's Football Symposium ended on a high note with participants lauding the ground breaking two-day event as a big step towards the development of the women's game. The closure was preceded by presentations of the recommendations by the seven working groups consisting of Competitions, Technical, Marketing, Media, Governance, Development and Stakeholders. CAF President Ahmad in his closing speech said that the various recommendations will be forwarded to the newly established CAF Women's Football Department for review, and then to the CAF Executive Committee for implementation. "What you have discussed during these two days, what you have proposed, what you have retained in the title of resolutions, will be the subject of a complete analysis by the new department of women's football which has just been created. "I declared that I was a happy and satisfied man. Happy with the success of this first initiative, satisfied because the results exceeded all our expectations. "I said in my opening speech that if necessary, we will break all the taboos to help promote the women's game in Africa. For our supreme duty is to be faithful to our promises and to the impressive resolutions taken here today. "I tell you frankly: I will be this president who will have made every effort to achieve the objectives set. "It is my duty to appeal to the governments of all our African states to embark on the path of close cooperation in the development of African Football. "My great final wish is that women's football on our continent becomes a tool at the service of economic, social and cultural life," he said. One of the participants, Meskerem Tadesse Goshime of Ethiopia said :"the symposium was a great chance for women's football to get the recognition it has been waiting for. Everybody involved in women's football in Africa has been waiting for such a gathering. We want to raise our game but we cannot do it alone. It is my hope that women's football will from now get the needed support to take a step ahead". The closing session was attended by FIFA General Secretary Fatma Samoura and Liberia First Lady Clar Weah, who the CAF President conferred on her "Ambassador for Women's Football".