8 WOMEN, 8 COUNTRIES, 8 QUESTIONS! Inter'Actes-MadameDigital to host the second edition of its virtual dialogue series, targeting Anglophone countries, on the occasion of International Women's Day 2018. This coming March 28 2018, Inter'Actes-MadameDigital presents the second edition of the "LIVETW'8", a virtual dialogue series, and an unprecedented initiative, bringing voices of engaged women, to discuss, exchange and share experiences under one "space", on thematic issues related to the Global and African Women Agendas. Launched on March 8 2018, on the occasion of International Women's Day (IWD) 2018, the inaugural session of the "LIVETW'8" featured 8 French-speaking African countries namely, Senegal, Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Benin, Niger, Togo, Burkina Faso, and Mali. It successfully hosted, a two-hours session driven by 8 thematic questions addressed to two panels of 8 women from 8 countries, and joined by 2 guest speakers each. "I have seen and learned so much that I will need a whole day at least to assimilate all that was shared here today" stated Mariam Diaby, a panelist from Cote d'Ivoire at the end of the session. The second edition targeting English-speaking African countries will follow the same format: 8 thematic questions addressed to a panel of 8 women from 8 countries. The countries featured are:  Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon, Liberia, Sierra Leone, The Gambia, South Africa, and Kenya. Two guest speakers will also join the conversation. The LIVETW'8 session will begin at 4:00PM (GMT) on March 28 2018 and is open to all users of the social media network Twitter.  The panel discussion can be followed live via the hashtags #livetw8 or #8by8, as well as the Twitter account @MadameDigitale.  The audience is invited to join in and participate in using the same hashtags. Note to the Editors A virtual open round table, the Live Tw'8 transposes the format of traditional panel discussions onto social networks, which have served as a platform of choice on which women around the world have raised their voices in 2017. The Live Tw'8 aims at capitalizing on digital influence as an advocacy tool and a lever of action, and at developing models of innovative citizen action and engagement with transnational dynamics. Inter'Actes-MadameDigital proposes a holistic approach to nurturing and supporting women entrepreneurs and female-led business initiatives based in West/Central Africa, through a collaborative, integrated platform that cultivates intergroup solidarity and innovation. Addressing key socioeconomic challenges through advocacy, Inter'Actes-MadameDigital conducts social media-based, high-visibility campaigns dedicated to engage policy makers and to change public opinion through conscious conversations that leverage powerful stories, to meet the overarching goals of the initiative. For more information visit our website: www.madamedigital.com Media Inquiries Contacts Ms. Maguette Sall, Project Manager Inter'Actes, maguette@madamedigital.com +221 33 820 1420 Ms. Cora Portais, Multimedia Communications Associate Inter'Actes, news@madamedigital.com +221 33 820 1420