The water crisis in most parts of Lusaka has irked MMD youths who have described the situation as an embarrassment to a country with abundant fresh water bodies. In a statement issued to the media, MMD National Youth Treasurer Geoffrey Mulenga lamented that it was saddening citizens where being subjected to searching for water when rivers and lakes are full. He said the situation was regrettable and a serious indictment on President Edgar Lungu who was voted on the assumption that he identified with the poor in the country. "We want to express our disappointment with the water crisis in Lusaka. Its really sad, when you move around the country the rivers and lakes are full but people have no drinking water surely. "This situation is highly regrettable and is a serious indictment on the President who is identified with the poor. The people charged with the responsibility to help our President to deliver to the people are betraying him. These people are systematically burying the humility of our President who was largely voted by these same people they are denying water," he said. Mulenga observed the Ministries responsible should be disbanded because not serving their intended purpose. "Its been over a week now, there has not been any government official to address the residents in the affected areas. The Ministries responsible must be disbanded because its not serving any purpose. "People in the compounds don't watch TV or buy newspapers, what should have happened is that the Members Of Parliament, Councillors, Ward Officials, Lusaka Water officers should have gone on the ground to communicate to the people. In South Africa currently there is a national water crisis which has been declared a national disaster. South Africans are rationing water but unfortunately here we are playing with water. With this abundant easy to consume water in all the provinces we are surely grappling to manage our water resources," he said. He wondered what the country would become if the crisis the magnitude of the one being faced in South Africa was to it the country. "This amount of recklessness and incompetence by the Sewerage Companies dotted across the country is reason why we had a cholera outbreak. This negligence must be stamped out. What would become of our country if we faced a similar situation as the one being faced in South Africa? Even when people have water, the water is not safe for drinking or its contaminated. "As politicians we cannot afford to be "all talk and no action," and we want to urge the President to move in on some of these people sabotaging his delivery of services to the people. Because ultimately its the President's image they are denting, not that of Councillor or MP or the Minister responsible. People don't even know the name of the manager of the Water And Sewerage Companies, its the name of the President they are disparaging day and night," he said.