Illegal migration in Ethiopia has show decline owing to families' increased awareness. We are in an era where illegal migration and smugglers are the stoke-in-trade of local and international mainstream media. Despite its harshest side, many people have kept on following the harshest paths instead of the legal and the smooth ones. This is especially true for those poor countries where people are forced to leave their land for the sake of political or economic reasons. There might be several reasons that force human kind to leave their birthplaces. When one leaves his/her country due to migration, they will be forced to depart from their family members and gave up the entire social and cultural values that have special meaning in their life. Change and progress are part of human character. The need for better life style is always there behind illegal migration. When things become tougher and tougher at home, individuals will pay all the sacrifice to go abroad. By the same token, if life is less hard at home, they will do everything to attain their goal working there. However, illegal migration will be best option when someone loses hope and becomes so desperate in life due to wars, disaster and so forth. Behind every illegal migration ,there is always a great sacrifice. This could be financial, spiritual, psychological and physical. We know from our experiences that rape, slavery, prostitution and losing one's organ are some of the worst sides of illegal migration. According to IOM National Program Officer, Leyunet Demsis, illegal migration has already become a modern time slavery where people are ruthlessly sold. They as well expose to prostitution and forced to loss their priceless organs. Despite all the pressures by governments and other stakeholders about the daunting aspect of illegal migration , the youth are still sacrificing themselves to illegal brokers. Leyunet said due to the awareness programmes created in the society and the special attention given by the government and international community illegal migration is on the decline. Ethiopians used Kenya and Tanzania as transition countries to go to South Africa. Two years ago, about 20,000 Ethiopians were migrated through Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples' State (SNNPs). And this number has decreased in 2018. This is due to the reason that the state government of SNNPs have worked hard in areas of illegal migration. Several reasons can be taken as a cause to reduce the number of illegal migration. The awareness of parents and societies towards the consequences of illegal migration has grown these days. According to her, the price that is to be paid for illegal brokers has also become the cause to decrease the number of illegal migrants. Parents' awareness and their commitment not to send their children away in illegal manner is the other good thing behind the success. The role of religious leaders in directing the youth to the right track is also another important factor behind the success. Now parents realized the suffering of their children they have started to expose them to legal measures. This has its positive impact on preventing illegal migration. Curbing illegal migration is not an issue that should only be left to the government or international organization. In this regard the roles of religious leaders, media, and the civic society in general are vital. Adane Dechasa is, Peace Coordinator for Inter-Religious Council of Ethiopia. He bevies that whenever individuals migrate to other countries in illegal way, there is always a hardship. This is not only for individuals. It has also a consequence to the family as well as the nation. However, if they took the legal way, their contribution is positive both to the family and the country. According to him, most poor counties are the victims of illegal migration. In this regard, all stakeholders should play their roles to further decline migration.