On Human Right's day, Wednesday 21 March, when one of South Africa's most popular artists, Slow Jack will perform at Cape Town's scenic Kirstenbosch National Botanical Garden alongside Petite Noir. Tickets are available from Webtickets and range between R135 - R180. MORE ABOUT SLOW JACK: Slow Jack formed in 2015 and has grown into an ensemble of some of the most talented musicians in Cape Town. With power vocals, astounding guitaring and music that speak of abundance, hardship and everyday life that affects us all, they render a rare and seldom seen chemistry on stage. Since its inception, Slow Jack caught on like a wild fire. Their debut single Love To Dream reached number 1 on 5FM's Top 40 Chart. We spoke to the Slow Jack's vocalist and violinist Jayme van Tonder about the huge gig and what the band is going to release next. HERE'S OUR CHAT WITH SLOW JACK: How do you feel about performing on Kirstenbosch' stage where so many true legends have stepped on: Performing at Kirstenbosch is an incredible honour for any musician. It is an opportunity many dream of and some never get the privilege to play, so it really is a big deal and we are beyond grateful for the opportunity. When getting on the Kirstenbosch stage it is putting on big boy shoes, it's intimidating. We cannot wait. Performing with Petite Noir on the lineup, what is your reaction to him and the #noirwave movement and to share the stage? We have been following him for a couple of years now, it is amazing to see how he just goes from strength to strength. We were fortunate enough to have spent some time with him, and when he first walks into a room you can feel him oozing a noir wave presence. He is pioneering a path for many African artists to indulge themselves in music and exceptional art, where individuality is key. We have been so inspired by the work of Petite Noir and his wife Rharha Nembhard and the collaborative union between the two and it is an honour to open for him. Do you have anything you would like to say to fans or musicians who look up to you? Embrace individuality, don't throw in the towel and be inspired to be able to inspire. Anything that you guys are currently working on that we would be interested in hearing about? We have just finished recording a new single titled Sick & Tired, which is currently being mixed in Los Angeles. It will be a bit different to what we have previously done, as an entity we have evolved in the past year and are looking forward to seeing how the evolution of Slow Jack will sound in the coming year. Sick & Tired will be released in the next coming weeks.What are your thoughts on the music industry and ever-changing trending sound? At the moment everything is happening at a miraculous fast pace, and keeping up with the latest trends and technologies is somewhat becoming a full-time job. In a way, I think people should slow down a bit. The music industry is at a weird place, the world is at a weird place, but that is just my opinion. I do feel that musicians and artists should have an open mind and explore their own uniqueness in a very trending world. Where can people stay up to date with your work?We are on all social media platforms and our music is on Spotify, Itunes, Deezer you name it. Concert Times: Gates open at 16:00. The concert takes place from 17:15 to 19:00. Note: All concerts go ahead irrespective of rain. Picnic Hampers: Available from Moyo Restaurant Kirstenbosch (021 762 9585) or the Kirstenbosch Tea Room (021 797 4883). Refreshments will be on sale at all the concerts. Disabled Parking: Cars displaying disabled parking disks will be given special parking in the service entrance 400m past the main entrance off Rhodes Drive. Source: Supplied