"When we compare the status of Ethiopian Tourism past and present, a lot of changes have been witnessed in every nook and cranny of the country following the determination of the Ethiopian government which has been aspiring to take Ethiopian Tourism to the pinnacle of growth," highlighted Dr. Ayalew Sisay approached by The Ethiopian Herald. "Due to misguided policies in the Derg regime,Ethiopia was once a synonium to drought. Almost there were no western tourists' inflows to Ethiopia. For instance in 1973 the number of tourists who came to Ethiopia was about 74,000. In the middle of the Derg time, the number of tourists went down to 27,000. The number of American tourists who had visited Ethiopia in 1973 was only 20,000. After that, tourists' inflow had made a nose dive by three or four folds. Tourism got one of its legs in the grave," said Dr. Ayalwew. He went on to say, everything was centralized. Even worse, private sectors did not get themselves engaged in the Tourism Sector. All hotels were centralized by National Hotels Corporation in six chains such as Wabi Shebele Hotel, Ras Hotel, Ghion Hotel, Ethiopia Hotel, Filwoha Hotel. The sector was highly centralized. Tourists were not allowed to stay in private hotels except in government ones. Furthermore, foreigners were not allowed to go out of Addis Ababa without a permission letter. These realities on the ground have hindered the Growth of Tourism for years. Later, the Derg government came up with a catch phrase called "Know your country!" to promote tours. Likewise, Ethiopians began to pay homage to touristic spots from towns to different sites. It was a time domestic tourism made a u turn. Moreover, Ethiopians jumpstarted visiting the different tourist attractions of the country via schools, different organizations and the rest. The influx of foreign tourists was completely dead at that point. After that, the government changed the communist system to a mixed economy apart from proclaiming the fact that Ethiopia was open for everyone. Hence, tourists nonstop restarted flowing to Ethiopia. Private investors as well were allowed to open hotels. Slowly but surely, tourism started growing, as per Dr. Ayalew. When the incumbent came to power, the tourism sector kept on reviving. The government kept on engaging itself in the entire economic activities of the country placing focus on the tourism development. Hence, tourism was upgraded from commission to minstrel level. Enterprises were finally transferred to private sectors. Therefore, now, the owner, the developer and responsible body of tourism development is the private sector. At this point, the government is getting itself involved in facilitation (constructing roads, expanding telephone lines and electricity, water and so forth). Currently, Ethiopia is heading in the right direction pertaining to tourism and other development activities of the country. The Ethiopian government has been harvesting the fruit of success at this moment in time regarding the tourism sector. A lot of activities have been underway regarding tourism. Tourists' inflows have been increasing from time to time as the country is meeting the required facilities every so often.