Thrilling oral narratives, dances and plays marked Day One of the 59th edition of the Kenya National Drama and Film Festival that got underway at Lenana School in Nairobi on Tuesday. Laiser Hill Academy's Lennox Agwenge staged a gripping narrative titled The Hotbed which tells the story of a poor village school competing in the national drama festival for the first time. The students are shocked and intimidated by how their rivals have heavily invested in costumes and backdrops as compared to their modest spending on the same. But in an interesting turn of events, they actually qualify for the gala - a performance for the president by winning teams - because their items had a "Hotbed of Storylines." REAL SUBSTANCE The story satirises some schools which heavily invest in gadgetry at the expense of the real substance - the story. The narrative is scripted by Clifford Ouma popularly known in the festival circles as Nyakwar Dani, he of the Otonglo Time fame. Kenya High School presented a Dholuo creative dance Alando. The heroine of the dance is neglected by her parents who are preoccupied with their careers, delegating their parental duty to 'Jakasi' (the house help). Menengai High School staged a play Gorias Glory' scripted by Michael Kiguta, as Friends School Bukembe weighed in with a thrilling creative dance, Lutungu, scripted by Masibo Eric and choreographed by Orexided Barasa. STAND-UP COMEDY The dance revolves around two siblings. When they go to school, the daughter performs well but the son, dismally. The son is rebuked by his father, who even chases him out of the family home, but his music talent saves him. In the meantime, pressure amounts on the father, after failing to raise money to take his daughter to college. Maseno School presented a play on media freedom while Gathungururu Girls presented a stand-up comedy. The festival was officially opened by Nairobi Regional Commissioner Kangethe Thuku, who said drama helps students polish their diction and appropriate intonation. Others present were national chairman, Prof C.J Odhiambo, regional co-ordinator of education, Nairobi, John Ololtuaa, and the event executive secretary James Indimuli. Host principal William Kemei said the festival does not only give students an opportunity to showcase their talent and cultural diversity, but was also a forum for uniting the country.