MOST villagers in the flood-prone Zambezi region say they will not be forced to leave their homes because of the rising waters. This is despite the fact that they face difficult living conditions because they are unable to leave their villages as the rising water levels have surrounded their homes, and blocked their paths to the markets and clinics. Kabbe South constituency councillor John Likando yesterday told The Namibian that the floods are fast approaching, and have affected many villages such as Kalala, Nankuntwe, Invilivinzi, Mpukano and Saile as they are completely inaccessible or flooded, but people are not keen on relocating. "The government cannot force people to relocate unless they want to; that is the only way we can assist them. The people chose to stay in their comfort zones. They know how to survive in their villages, even if they are flooded. The floods come with a lot of fish, so people are also enjoying that," he said. Mathew Jolosi, a resident of Nankuntwe village, yesterday said although their houses and crops are flooded, they are not willing to move elsewhere. "This is our home. We cannot pack and leave our houses because of floods. We have adapted ways to survive the floods. Plus, if we move, we would not enjoy the fish that comes with the floods. All we need is maize meal from government since our fields are flooded, and we would also appreciate a mobile clinic since we cannot reach the health facilities," he said. According to the daily flood bulletin of the Hydrological Services of Namibia dated 12 April, the Zambezi River's level continues to rise rapidly, and is currently at 6,53 metres, making it higher than the past three years during the same period. Meanwhile, the 47 Grade 9 and Grade 10 pupils from the Muzii Combined School in the Kabbe North constituency who were relocated last week due to floods resumed classes on Monday. The acting Zambezi regional education director, Jooste Kawana, who gave The Namibian an update on the relocation yesterday, said the pupils and teachers have all settled in at the Lusese Combined School, and lessons have resumed as usual. "The teachers and pupils are living in two tents - one for males and the other for females. We have chosen the Lusese Combined School because they have toilets and water. "We will have a re-run mission before the schools open to see if the school will be fit for the pupils to go back. We could not relocate all the other grades from the Muzii Combined School because of the associated costs and other resources as well," he noted. Kawana added that they had to close three other schools - the Mpukano Primary School, Namiyundu Combined School and Nankuntwe Combined School - earlier because they are flooded.