The Nairobi Film Festival is all about Africans sharing African stories of all genres with an audience hungry to watch more content from the continent by creatives that defy the stereotypes of Africa's portrayal to and by the world. Masses of excited film-goers flooded the cinemas to watch a carefully curated collection of films from all over Africa at the second edition of the Nairobi Film Festival. The 2018 festival ran from 27 March to 1 April and was a rousing success, with tickets selling out well before the show dates. Created by film producer Mbithi Masya and Sheba Hirst, the festival, which mainly intended to re-ignite the film culture in Kenya and highlight various locally produced films, evidently also shone the spotlight on amazing filmmakers from other parts of the continent. The feature films on offer included these must-sees: Supa Modo The clear festival favourite is a Kenyan-produced film, directed by the renowned Likarion Wainaina. The movie tells the tale of a young girl whose dream of becoming a superhero is threatened by terminal illness. In an interview with Variety, Philipp Hoffmann, of the distribution company Rushlake Media, said, "It's all at once a film with a strong female lead, a superhero film, a comedy about grief and dying, and a film about community and people coming together." An interesting take on sci-fi, the lead, Stycie Waweru, wows in the movie. I Am Not A Witch In a film that has received mixed reviews, and directed by Zambian-born Welsh director Rungano Nyoni, this is the story of the life of a girl named Shula. After she turns up at a rural homestead unannounced, the 9-year-old Shula is subjected to a witch trial and sent to a witch camp, catering to the wild requests of the camp director and tourists. The director's approach to the mystery surrounding witches is comical and spellbinding. Disconnect From the brains behind the film Nairobi Half Life comes a romantic comedy. This movie about the complexities of dating is a raw yet entertaining take on the difficulties of the single life in Nairobi. Its cast is star-studded, with the likes of Nick Mutuma, Brenda Wairimu, Catherine Kamau, Pascal Tokodi, Bridgette Shigadi, Pierre Makena and Patricia Kihoro. Liyana A Swazi girl embarks on a dangerous quest to rescue her young twin brothers. This animated African tale, which won best documentary at the 2017 LA Film Festival, is born in the imaginations of five orphaned children in Swaziland. They collaborate to tell a story of perseverance drawn from their darkest memories and brightest dreams. Their fictional character's journey is interwoven with poetic and observational documentary scenes to create a genre-defying celebration of collective storytelling.