While constructing the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD) in astounding unity to meet the economy's ever growing power demand, Ethiopians have also started to reap fruits of their toil earlier before the dam even go operational, - in the form of priceless national consensus. Ever since its construction commencement, GERD has changed the image of the country and become source of national consensus, inspiration and unity for the peoples of Ethiopia. This week, GERD's seventh construction commencement anniversary is being celebrated across the country. Prior, a bond week was organized to make sure that the people continue their relentless support to the dam. More than 200 temporary sales centers across the country sold GERD bond to citizens. Ethiopian Press Agency reporters recently went to one of these centers around Arat Kilo where Demissew Damete, the capital's resident was buying GERD bond. "All Ethiopians own GERD. It is our property. If we do not join forces and support the construction, we would not be able to realize and see the prosperous Ethiopia," he said. He also added that he has been supporting the dam's construction ever since its commencement in various aspects, particularly by buying GERD bonds issued by the government. So far, Demissew bought four bonds and used the bond week to buy yet another bond. "As GERD is our hope and future, I call on every Ethiopian to support its completion," he underlined. This is what most Ethiopians believe and have been doing to support the construction of GERD. Similar to the times of foreign aggressions in the past, GERD united all Ethiopians, irrespective political affiliation, gender, sex, ethnicity and any differences that come about for the same cause. This spirit of national consensus has raised the morale of citizens to support the construction of the dam morally, financially, and materially with sense of duty, patriotism and national responsibility. Zewudu Gebrekidan, Office head at the Addis Ababa City Office Secretary for the Coordination of Public Participation on GERD on her part said from its inception the people of Ethiopia have showed unreserved support for the GERD cause. "GERD is our identity through which we have showed our commitment, dedication and unity to the world," she said. Hailu Abraham, Public Relation and Media Communication Director at the Office of National Council for the Coordination of Public Participation on the Construction of GERD also told The Ethiopian Herald that besides its positive impact internally, GERD has brought together Ethiopians all over the world by creating consensus and common identity under one umbrella. Over the seven years period, a considerable number of Ethiopians have bought GERD bond, donated fund and visited the construction site in person. The Coordination Office has so far raised more than 10.3 billion birr from GERD bond, trophy, tombola and Diaspora wing. There might be political, religious, and ethnic differences, but there is always something common among Ethiopians, Hailu said. That is why they have come to reach common consensus and jointly show belongingness and commitment to build the dam as it is their lasting dream to see a prosperous and strong Ethiopia. GERD has now become a very important part of the life of each and every Ethiopian. It is considered the symbol of the nation and an expression of sovereignty. It has created a new sense of optimism and consensus among the population. This is clear in that the finger prints of every Ethiopian are sealed on it, as to him. While there have been conflicts in some parts of the country, but it seems that no Ethiopian would make compromises when it comes to GERD. Despite the existence of both internal and external pessimists, doomsayers and destructive forces, the pace to finalize the project has kept on, Zewudu added. GERD has developed the 'I can do it' mentality among Ethiopians. According to Zewudu the strong commitment Ethiopians showed towards GERD have also positively influenced the thinking in neighboring countries that have also showed their support to the construction of the dam. "They came to understand that GERD would promote fair distribution of resources in the region." Hailu also agree with this stance. Regionally, GERD has also created a sense of hope and cooperation among African countries in general and riparian countries in particular, he said.