Omoro — Following several reports by this newspaper on the plight of children suffering from nodding disease syndrome in Acholi Sub-region, South African Airways has donated 11 tons of food supplements to benefit 5,000 of them. Nodding syndrome is a neurological illness, which affects children mainly of ages five to 15. It is characterised by nodding and retards growth of the victims. It is estimated that 6,000 children mainly in Kitgum, Pader and Omoro districts have been affected by nodding syndrome and 500 have passed on since 2010. While handing over the donation to the children at Hope for Human Aromowangolobo Treatment Centre in Omoro District on Tuesday, Ms Yewagnesh Biriggwa, the South African Airways country manager, said the media has played a pivotal role in informing the world about the plight of the children. "We came on board to see how best we can help these children as South African Airways after the recent investigations and documentaries done by the media," she said. "You have been key messengers in bringing out the truth about nodding syndrome, please do not shy away or be intimidated in trying to bring to the attention of the world the plight of these children until the disease is completely eradicated," she added. Appeal Ms Yewagnesh appealed to well-wishers to come on board and help the future generation. Mr Ceaser Okot, who oversees the Hope for Human, said: "The food items mean a lot to us. Since the centre was closed last year, children have since been undergoing medication without proper feeding and their recovery has retarded." Mr Okot said eight children have passed on since last year at both Tumagu treatment centre in Kitgum and Hope for Human centre due to lack of proper feeding. Each child received two kilogrammes of food supplements and upon completion, they will get more food from the centre Mr Okot said. About the disease. Nodding syndrome affects the victims mentally and physically retards them. The syndrome affects young children on average between the ages of 5 and 15. It was first reported in 2003 in northern Uganda and 6,000 children in Acholi have been affected.