Jonas Jonas secured Namibia's first medal at the Commonwealth Games with an impressive victory against Dinindu Ponnawela Don of Sri Lanka on Tuesday. Jonas was in imperious form, winning the fight 5-0 on all the judges scorecards to progress to the semifinals and ensure Namibia's first medal at the Games. With both semifinal losers receiving bronze medals, Jonas will now at least win a bronze medal, regardless of his performance in Friday's semifinals when he takes on Luke McCormack of England. Such was his dominance against Don though, that he will now be one of the favourites to win the gold medal in the 64kg light welterweight category. In the first round he mostly stayed out of reach and accumulated points with a sharp jab and quick combinations. In the second he went over to the attack and sent Don to the canvas twice - the first time was ruled a slip but there was no denying the second one as Don received an eight-count. By the third round Jonas was well in control, pummelling away at Don, who could not withstand the onslaught and once again went down onto his knees. Jonas was a clear winner with four of the judges scoring it 30-27 in his favour and the fifth judge 29-28 in his favour. Namibia's Chef de Mission, Jesse Schickerling said Jonas was a man on a mission. "Jonas showed that he's here to win and that he means business. We are delighted with his performances, if one bears in mind all the tribulations he had to endure at the Rio Olympics. But he is a great athlete and has emerged with his head held high; he is an emotionally strong athlete and he is out to prove a point after Rio," he said. In bowls on Tuesday, Namibia's Women's Trips team of Lesley Vermeulen, Sheena du Toit and Johanna van den Bergh suffered two narrow defeats to Jersey and Wales. Against Jersey, Namibia were trailing 8-2 after eight ends, but did well to draw level at 12-12 after 15 ends. Jersey, however, finished stronger to win the match 15-12 after 18 ends. Against Wales, Namibia got off to a great start and were leading 5-1 after the sixth end, but they failed to press home their advantage and allowed Wales to get back into the match. By the 11th end Wales had taken a 9-8 lead but by the 14th end Namibia were once again leading 12-10. Wales, however, fought back to win the match 15-14 after 18 ends. Namibia are now fourth in Section B on zero points, behind New Zealand (9), Wales (9) and Jersey (6). In the Men's Fours category, Namibia's team of Kabous Olivier, Graham Snyman, Douw Calitz and Will Esterhuizen beat Niue 16-13. After level-pegging during the early stages, Namibia took a decisive 12-6 lead by the 11th end and although Niue made a strong comeback, Namibia held on for the victory. Namibia are now third in Section C on three points, behind Malaysia (6) and Northern Ireland (3). In track and field on Tuesday, Hardus Maritz came fifth in his heat of the Men's 400m hurdles and failed to progress to the next round. The heat was won by Jaheel Hyde of Jamaica in 49,14 seconds, while Maritz came fifth in 50,41 seconds. In cycling, Namibia's Drikus Coetzee came 19th and Martin Freyer 37th overall in the Men's Individual Time Trial. Cameron Meyer of Australia won the gold medal in 48 minutes 13,04 seconds, with Harry Tanfield of England winning silver, 30,26 seconds behind, and Hamish Bond of New Zealand winning bronze, 32,41 seconds behind. Coetzee finished in a time of 53:16,85, which was 5:03,81 behind the winner, while Freyer finished in 58:12,22, which was 9:59,18 behind the winner. A total of 53 cyclists completed the time trial. In gymnastics, Namibia's Robert Honiball missed out on a place in the final for the top eight, when he came tenth in the Men's Individual Apparatus category.