The home affairs ministry could not account for over N$16,7 million transferred into five bank accounts based in foreign countries during the 2016/17 financial year. This was among the revelations in the audited report by auditor general Junias Kandjeke on the accounts of the home affairs ministry that was submitted to the National Assembly late last month. The report stated that while the ministry had transferred money abroad to cover "the cost of living allowances" for its attaches in five different countries, the ministry failed to account for such funds, under review, because they said they had no control over the accounts. The funds were deposited into two bank accounts in China that had closing balances of over US$186 000 and over CNY4, 39 million (Chinese yuan), or a combined N$10,7 million. Two accounts in Germany had a combined balance of over €350 000 or N$5,2 million at the end of the financial year, while another account in Nigeria had a balance of over 20 million naira or N$683 000. The ministry also could not account for about N$200 000 transferred into a bank account in South Africa. Altogether, the balances in the aforesaid bank accounts amounted to over N$16,7 million of state funds which were unaccounted for at the end of the financial year. According to the report, home affairs' financial adviser, Likius Valombola, explained that they could not account for the money because the ministry had no control over "these bank accounts as they were managed by the Ministry of International Relations and Cooperation". The report, however, stated that the international relations ministry also did not disclose those bank accounts, "leaving the funds in these bank accounts unaccounted for". Home affairs public relations officer Sakeus Kadhikwa did not reply to questions sent to him, while international relations spokesperson Bertha Amakali said she would reply to questions after reading the report. The accounting officer is required to account for state funds received by a ministry. "It is recommended that the accounting officer should keep proper accounts of transactions in relation to the state money by means of a system of account books, accounts and registers approved by treasury, as required [...] and report all bank accounts under his ministry where government funds are kept," the report stated. During the same financial year, the ministry likewise did not account for revenue received for visa and permit applications through its attachés in foreign countries. The audited report states that the funds received from this cause were deposited and kept in the attaches' bank accounts, and were unaccounted for in the ministry's books. The money collected through visa and permit fees in Germany, Angola, South Africa, China and Nigeria amounted to about N$2,5 million. The report indicated that the ministry also performed dismally in terms of financial management and control during the 2016/17 financial year. This includes unauthorised expenditure reported at various sub-divisions and maintenance expenses exceeded by an amount of N$23 million for an item which was exempted from normal tender procedures. Poor financial controls also resulted in unexplained differences of more than N$3,7 million reported between the debit balance list and subsistence and travel allowances. "The accounting officer did not account for all the revenue collected by the ministry in the financial year under review because there was no thorough analysing and reconciliation carried out as required by treasury," the AGs report stressed.