The Pro-chancellor, Ekiti State University, Mr Dele Adesina (SAN) has decried the poor funding of tertiary education in the country saying it poses the greatest threat to manpower production. Adesina, who spoke at the 10th anniversary of Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH) Ado-Ekiti, said inadequate funding hinders the growth of universities, adding that no country can grow beyond its manpower training institutions. He subsequently urged government at all levels to make the funding of these health institutions a priority. "Talking about funding of tertiary hospitals in Nigeria, it should be noted that the greatest obstacle to the growth of our universities is lack of adequate funding. One wonders whether this is due to lack of proper appreciation of an efficient and effective institution or lack of setting priorities right. Only recently, the Pro-chancellor of University of Lagos, Dr Wale Babalakin (SAN) made similar comments." He however appealed to Ekiti State to put political sentiments apart and join hands in developing the teaching hospital. "To us in Ekiti State, EKSUTH and indeed EKSU are our very own and we must join hands to build and make them enviable institutions. This is a responsibility for all of us home and abroad irrespective of our political sympathy. I believe that politics must give way to a common purpose and that common purpose in my opinion is how to make Ekiti great. What increases a man is the value he is able to add to the society. The world is looking for somebody who will do something, not somebody who will explain why he did not do anything". The Medical Director, Dr Kolawole Ogundipe gave a brief history of the institution and thanked both staff and management for the success it has recorded since inception. "I am glad to say that this hospital can boast of crops of dedicated staff both in the clinical and non -clinical departments. I make bold to say that EKSUTH members of staff are among the best and most passionate any teaching hospital can have. The Schools of Nursing and Midwifery were given unlimited grace to apply merit in the admission of students. Little wonder then that they have continued to record 100 per cent success in the final qualifying examinations of the Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria".