A lawmaker has proposed changes in the law to require public officers covered by the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), including the President, to use government health facilities. The MP said the move is likely to improve public health services. Kwale woman representative Zuleikha Hassan, who came up with the bill, said if public officers use the hospitals, they are likely to ensure the facilities are adequately funded, staffed and equipped. The bill proposes the amendment of the law to require NHIF to only pay for public officers' medical expenses if they are treated in government hospitals. Under the current law, those covered by NHIF can seek services in any hospital approved by the fund irrespective of where they are employed. AMENDMENT "With the continued deteriorating of health services in the country, it is hoped that such an amendment will not only ensure that hospitals are well equipped, but also ensure there is constant oversight of service delivery by leaders across the country in this very crucial sector," reads the proposed law. The draft was sent to the Speaker of the National Assembly, Mr Justin Muturi, last week. According to the Constitution, a public officer is any state officer or any person, other than a state officer, who holds a public office. That means officials of the Executive, the Judiciary, the Legislature, counties, independent commissions and parastatals, who draw a salary from the consolidated fund or through parliamentary votes, would be required to seek medical attention from public hospitals. However, it has gaps when viewed against the tenets of universal healthcare such as the one envisioned under the NHIF that seeks to ensure access, affordability, quality and choice. CONTRIBUTIONS According to Economic Survey 2017, NHIF received Sh28.5 billion in contributions and paid Sh10.2 billion in benefits to its 6.1 million active members in the financial year ending June 2016. The benefits to contributions ratio, however, declined from 47.6 per cent the previous year to 36 per cent. Although the data does not show the contribution, the public service had 737,000 workers, including 297,000 teachers as of June 2017. The bill comes against the backdrop of complaints that conditions in public hospitals have remained dire because public officers choose to seek services in private hospitals. The proposed law elicited a heated debate on Twitter. Boniface Mwangi wrote: "This is a very important bill. All public officials, including the President, should be treated in public hospitals." SUPPORT Daisy Amdanyu said voters should ensure their MPs support the bill, adding: "Congratulations to @Mpzuleikahassan for this very timely bill. Mobilise support for this bill." David Ludogoliu said NHIF must be strictly for public hospitals. "All MPs, irrespective of party affiliation, should resist attempts by private hospitals to shoot down this bill," he wrote. Joyce Aludau wrote: "I propose that their children also attend public schools." However, others opposed the idea, saying it would not be easy. Isaac Kiplagat said: "I wonder how this will work because the MPs pay for private medical insurance from their pay. How do you force them to enter into the public scheme if they pay for private? Is it communism or what?" Peter Wanjohi wrote: "What a retrogressive bill. I am not a civil servant but the bill is in contravention with freedom of choice."