South African developed fuel payment mobile, Payment24 will soon roll out the app internationally with key focus in Africa. The move will position the Payment24 as a pioneer in mobile-based customer convenience in Africa, allowing the Oil Companies and Fuel Card Issues like banks, to enhance efficiencies, reduce the risk of losses due to incorrect grades of fuel being billed, and eliminate the risks of payment fraud or errors at the pump. The joint CEOs of Payment24, Shadab Rahil and Nolan Daniels, says the platform has gained significant traction in the market and is in use by major fleet owners and organisations across Africa and abroad. "Expanding on our growth in the fuel and transport sectors, our partnership with oil companies and bank, takes the advanced payment solution to the mobile phones of consumers and small business owners for the first time," says Rahil. The app also positions the company to enhance its 'know your customer' initiatives and lays the foundation for mobile-based loyalty programmes, promotions and referral programmes. "South African consumers and small business owners can now use this advanced fuel management and payment solution to reserve funds for fuel, speed up the payment process, control and track fuel expenditure by family members and employees, manage accounts and generate logs. In our pilot projects, customers reported a significantly improved experience and said they appreciated not having to hand over credit or debit cards or carry cash for fuel purchases," he says. One of the major factors that sets Payment24 apart is that banks, petroleum companies and other major App providers, can emend the white label SDK within their existing Mobile App, with no specialised infrastructure required. "The mobile app reduces the cost and complexity of managing payment terminals on the forecourt, cuts the cost per transaction, enhances payment security and reduces time at the pumps," says Daniel. "In addition, by ensuring only the correct grade of fuel is authorised, petrol grade errors - traditionally a significant expense item - are reduced. And because the platform is so convenient, app users tend to return to the same petroleum brand time and again." For motorists, the new app will offer simpler, more secure payment at the pump. Using the app, motorists are geolocated at the filling station and simply input the pump number to authorise filling up and payment. Limits can be predetermined, and Businesses can manage their fuel spend for their employees & vehicles from a single dashboard, allowing the account owner to track and manage fuel expenses. Payment24 mobile fuel payment app can also be used by consumers and multiple family members. On the African continent Payment24 lists the UN headquarters in Kenya and Standard Bank in Namibia as clients with 2 of the 5 major Oil companies using its platform already.