Tanzania will have a mountain to climb in Kinshasa in a fortnight after settling for a barren draw with DR Congo in their First Round first leg on Saturday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The hosts were better in the first half, creating three clear chances in the first 10 minutes but failed to force the ball into the back of the net. Tanzania defender, Ally Ng'anzi was so close to give the hosts the lead in the sixth minute but his header went wide. The Congolese took control of the game halfway but Beverly Makingala, Henock Mangindu and Jackson Muleka all saw their attempts at goal going wide. On 37 minute, the DR Congo goalie Nathan Mobaelua pulled a superb save from close range to deny Assad Ally Juma. The second half was more intense with Tanzania seeking chance to score at home to easy pressure for the return leg, whilst the visitors make counter attacks to seek away crucial goal. Assad Ally and Abdul Sulemain missed chances for the hosts in the first 15 minutes of the second half against one by the visitors. Substitute Mohammed Rashid came close to breaking the deadlock for the host in the 74th minute, again Mobaelua was to his side's rescue. Two minutes later, DR Congo midfielder Ifaso Ifunga failed to give the visitors the lead from a one-on-one with Tanzania goalie, Ramadhani Kabwili, before substitute Pame Kilangalanga headed wide inside the six-yard in the dying embers. Reactions Ammy Ninje (Head Coach, Tanzania) We created between eight and nine chances in the first half but we didn't score, that was the problem for us. The DR Congo players are physically fitter than us and we couldn't battle with them one-on-one. When you play with a team whose players are fitter, you need to play quicker than them and we couldn't do that all the time. We need new plan ahead of the second leg. We will defend well and play with counter attack away. Jean Mukanya (Head Coach, DR Congo) Though we didn't win, it is a good result for us. A difficult task has to be done in Kinshasa to finish the second leg. Tanzania is a good team, with many young talents, well organized and plays good football. We play well at home to win the return leg. Results Saturday, 31 March 2018 Mauritania 2-0 Morocco Algeria 3-1 Tunisia Uganda 5-1 South Sudan Tanzania 0-0 DR Congo Seychelles 0-0 Mozambique Malawi 0-0 Swaziland Botswana 0-0 Namibia Sunday, 1 April 2018 Gabon vs Togo Kenya vs Rwanda Ethiopia vs Burundi Guinea Bissau vs Sierra Leone *Liberia vs Benin *Liberia withdrew, Benin qualified to second round