The Ministry of Social Security, National Solidarity, and Environment and Sustainable Development is organising several activities in the context of Earth Day 2018, which will be celebrated on 22 April. The theme for this year is 'End Plastic Pollution'. The activities comprise the official launching of the National Tree Planting Campaign at the Royal College of Curepipe on 22 April 2018, including the distribution of medicinal/decorative plants to students and the community, and a collection of plastic and PET bottles from 22 to 29 April 2018 in Curepipe. A National Tree Planting campaign will also be organised in all primary and secondary schools from 22 to 27 April 2018. Furthermore, the second edition of the booklet "Une Famille, Une Plante" will be launched and a talk on radio will be organised to sensitise the public on the importance of Earth Day and environment protection. About Earth Day On 22 April 1970, millions of people took to the streets to protest against the negative impacts of 150 years of industrial development. In many countries around the world, smog was becoming deadly and evidence was growing that pollution led to developmental delays in children. Biodiversity was in decline as a result of the heavy use of pesticides and other pollutants. Earth Day is now a global event each year, and more than 1 billion people in 192 countries now take part in what is the largest civic-focused day of action in the world. It is a day of political action and civic participation. People march, sign petitions, meet with their elected officials, plant trees, clean up their towns and roads. Corporations and governments use it to make pledges and announce sustainability measures. Earth Day Network (EDN), the organisation that leads Earth Day worldwide, announced that Earth Day 2018 will focus on mobilising the world to End Plastic Pollution, including creating support for a global effort to eliminate single-use plastics along with global regulation for the disposal of plastics. EDN goals include ending single-use plastics, promoting alternatives to fossil fuel-based materials, promoting 100 percent recycling of plastics, corporate and government accountability and changing human behaviour concerning plastics. It will also educate millions of people about the health and other risks associated with the use and disposal of plastics, including pollution of oceans, water, and wildlife, and about the growing evidence that decomposing plastics are creating serious global problems.