Skin related conditions are usually taken lightly in Zimbabwe, with their causes being reduced to opinions formed on the basis of incomplete information. Vitiligo is one of those conditions people hold multiple myths and misconceptions on. Inaccurate beliefs about the nature of the condition can have devastating effects for those living with it. Almost in the same way that most people disregard mental health issues, conversations about the different dermal conditions appear to be missing from the public domain. As a result, lack of awareness has led to stigmatisation of the condition. Rumbidzai Mugabe (25) of Harare was diagnosed with Vitiligo six years ago. "I was diagnosed with Non-Segmental Vitiligo in March 2012, which does not affect one area but spreads all over the body in no particular sequence or order," she said. Vitiligo is defined as a condition in which the pigment is lost from areas of the skin, causing whitish patches, often with no clear cause. For her, the condition is not painful and she has embraced the changes brought by the condition to her physical appearance. "It is not painful at all, for me personally unless when I get sunburns, which I believe is something everyone goes through. Even when it spreads there is no pain involved, I just feel a tingling sensation that I have since realised others don't experience," said Mugabe, describing how the condition makes her feel. There are two types of Vitiligo, Segmental skin problem (SV) which spreads at a slow pace over small confined patches and Non-segmental skin condition (NSV) which is considered to be progressive and spreads faster across the body through intermittent cycles. The only pain Mugabe has felt is the social implication of coming across people who are ignorant of the way she carries a different pigmentation on her skin. "I received stares all the time and it got to a point where I got used to them. Some even assumed that my skin was a result of gas burns," she said. In some cases, the comments about her skin have been far from polite. "At one time, there was a gentleman who was standing with a group of men at a terminus who shouted that my skin condition was a result of a bleaching attempt gone wrong," Mugabe narrated her ordeal. "One woman at the same place approached me and asked me if I was in any pain at all. I explained to her in detail what the condition means." A superstitious character even started formulating bizarre theories of their own trying to explain the condition she had been diagnosed with. "Living in an African country and being between two towns you have people who remember how you used to look. In most cases they would conclude that I was bewitched. "Some were even convinced that I do not pray enough, so God is not happy with me," she said. In addition to stigmatisation, the condition brought a cost to her and her family. "When it started my family imported skin oils from Australia which worked but smelt horribly. They were really expensive and I had to take supplements with them, I could not take the pills or use the oil for long," Mugabe said. For every 100 millilitres of oils they would pay $50 excluding shipping and delivery. The patches spread across her body in a random and unpredicted manner. However, its spread does not affect her functionality beyond aesthetics. "Currently I use a higher SPF sunscreen which I have to import because I have failed to find it locally. Acquiring the sunscreen has been costly to us," she said. Understanding how handling odd comments has an effect on the mental well-being of someone living with Vitiligo, Mugabe is setting up a peer support system for people who may have the same challenges. "I am starting a vitiligo support group called Vitiligo Zimbabwe. The idea is to give people who do not understand what they are going through more information and an outlet to speak," she said. Swaziland-based general practitioner Dr Benson Mudiwa said Vitiligo is "a skin condition characterised by depigmentation of skin resulting in lighter skin in affected areas." The condition is said to be hereditary. "It is thought to be an autoimmune disorder where a person's immune cells attack and damage the cells in the skin responsible for reproducing the melanin pigment. "Being an autoimmune disorder, it means there is a genetic predisposition and thus runs in families," said Dr Mudiwa. Ages from 10 to 30 are the most affected by this rare condition. "It can progress to affect the whole skin in some, like what was said to have happened to Michael Jackson resulting in his light skin. "There are various treatments with the most known being steroid creams and laser treatments depending on type and stage," he said. It is said that the late American entertainer, Michael Jackson underwent an image altering plastic surgery in a bid to cover up his Vitiligo. According to a 2017 article in the Journal of Pigmentary Disorder: "Vitiligo could be a genetic, reaction of skin problem inflicting loss of pigment from areas of the skin, leading to irregular white spots or patches." It is said that the condition can affect anyone regardless of gender, race and ethnicity. "The treatments for skin disease embody a range of topicals, lightweight therapies, general steroids, surgery, and de-pigmentation techniques," the journal said. There is an option for re-pigmentation but it takes a lot of time and resource commitment which has resulted in many shunning the idea. While there is no universally accepted single method of cure for it, Vitiligo is not contagious in any approach. According to experts, the actual causes are still subject for further research. Society needs to approach Vitiligo from an informed position to avoid reckless comments which are said by the journal to have psychological effects especially on the image conscious young and adolescent.