Mr Madabida, your firm, TPI, has recently come up with grand plans to revive its business after years of ups and downs. What has motivated you? Answer: For many years, we have gone through a lot. We had ups and downs, yes. [But last year]October30, 2017, we were rescued by the statement made by President John Magufuli. He instructed that the closed TPI plants should start producing drugs in two weeks' time. Motivated by the President's statement, we called a board meeting in Arusha to decide and on November 10, 2017 we started manufacturing. Are you facing stiff competition? Or is there a huge market for your products? Competition will always be there. But that doesn't worry me; first, the pharmaceutical demand in the country per annum is $550million. In Tanzania, we only meet about 11 per cent of the total demand while at the level of East Africa, we make not more than 25 per cent of the total medicines needed and we only have around 7 active pharmaceutical industries in Tanzania. This investment is still not enough to curb the shortage of medicines. How is the business environment in the country now? What do you need to survive as a local investor? The business environment is not yet conducive. But something can be done. For instance, we don't say the government should totally ban the importation of pharmaceutical drugs but it can introduce taxes that would eventually make importation a disincentive for the importers. As local investors, we don't have an affordable long-term investment funding. The government should formulate policies that enable investors to access funding from financial institutions to encourage more investment funding. There is no letter of credit being given to the local investors to enable them access funding as compared to foreign investors. Some taxes should be reviewed. For example, when we buy medicine to sell, we have to meet VAT charges. This discourages local investors. What kind of drugs are you planning to manufacture? We are producing drugs such as syrups and powder for suspensions. Currently, we have a challenge with TFDA which wants us to conduct a fresh registration for our new industry which requires money for registration. But we are in the process of starting production of ARVs. Do you work in collaboration with other investors? Yes. We are at the final stages of dialogue with more investors [I won't mention who, for now). They will be coming to team up with us. They will come and buy our shares in TPI but the government will remain with her 40 per cent shares in order to add strength to the new industry. We are modernizing the old plant to bring it into current and acceptable standards. We want to make TPI a centre of excellence. How much money have you pumped into your new investment? We have invested around €6.9 million, equivalent to over Sh19 billion in product development infrastructure and human resource training. All these are geared towards our goal of producing more and highly qualified experts to help in the production of quality medicines. How many jobs would this investment create? So far, in terms of direct employment, we have employed 750 highly qualified lab technicians, product technicians, chemists, pharmacists and engineers. Meanwhile, an estimated 5,000 employees are directly working with our firm. We expect the number of employees to rise as we grow. You had a target of producing 500,000 ARVs per month. How are you set to reach this target? We want to produce 6 million doses annually. The plan is that we will be increasing it by around 25 per cent every year. We also target around 600, 000 bottles of 100mls of other syrups such as Panadol per month and 7.2 million in the first year. This will be fully reached after finishing the stabilization of the new plant and the revival of the old one. Both will contribute to these targets. The government recently adopted the TEST and TREAT initiative which will see more people diagnosed with HIV being put on ARVs. What's your take on this as a manufacturer? Our brothers and sisters are living with HIV and this is so unfortunate. However, speaking as a manufacturer, this is an opportunity to invest and also help those who haven't been able to access the medication. With this government's focus, it means that the number of potential users of ARVs is high. This is an opportunity for local producers of ARVs.