Vusi Mahlasela, popularly called "The Voice of South Africa," who was set to be conferred with a honorary doctorate by the University of Kwa-Zulu Natal for his contribution to society through his music could not receive his award this week due to illness. The university said it hopes the musician will be well enough to receive the degree at its spring graduation ceremony in September, 2018. South African musician, Vusi Mahlasela who was set to be conferred with a honorary doctorate by the University of Kwa-Zulu Natal for his contribution to society through his music could not receive his award this week due to illness. The university's acting executive director of corporate relations, Normah Zondo was quoted saying the legendary musician will hopefully receive the award at the institution's spring graduation ceremony in September. "The university wishes him a speedy recovery and hopes that he will be well enough to join us at our spring graduation ceremony in September 2018," Zondo said. Mahlasela, who is often dubbed as "The voice" of South Africa inspired many people during the anti-apartheid movement. He performed at Nelson Mandela's inauguration in 1994 and also during Mandela's 90th birthday tribute. In 2012, then South African president Jacob Zuma awarded Mahlasela the Order of Ikhamanga, an award on South African citizens who have excelled in the fields of art, culture, literature, music, journalism and sport. Mahlasela has been singing social conscious music for the past 20 years. He told Sunday Tribune: "This is an important honour for me. God gave me the gift to impact people's lives." Vusi has appeared and worked with many notable African and international artists. Legendary musician Mahlasela started a music academy in order to pass on the knowledge he has acquired to younger musicians. Despite lack of space and funding, he has continued to help others. Growing up in apartheid South Africa, Mahlasela dedicated his life to singing about freedom, social justice, police harassment and the struggle.