President Hage Geingob said his seven-day visit to China that ends today was not for begging but to elevate ties between the two countries. Geingob's comments appear to have been a response to a story The Namibian ran on Thursday headlined 'Govt takes begging bowl to China'. In a wide-ranging interview with the state-run Chinese news agency, Xinhua, on his arrival on Friday, Geingob said media reports that were attacking him personally and the China-Africa cooperation would fail. The Namibian reported that Geingob's trip was meant to source funds for the proposed extensive upgrades to the Hosea Kutako International Airport and to buy aircraft for Air Namibia. Geingob would, The Namibian said, also ask for loans to fund Namibia's infrastructure plans and to finalise the space tracking station deal between the two countries. Sources further said Geingob wanted to wrap up the funding of the construction of the last phase of a two-lane highway to the Hosea Kutako International Airport. The airport construction deal, which was valued at N$7 billion in 2015, was cancelled after allegations of corruption and bribery of over N$100 million allegedly channelled into the pockets of senior government officials. Before he left, Geingob told Xinhua that he would seek an agreement with the Chinese government on an air service agreement permitting the two countries to allow international commercial air transport services to attract Chinese tourists to Namibia. Geingob, however, told Xinhua that ties between China and Namibia prove that the China-Africa cooperation is win-win and comments smearing bilateral cooperation are doomed to fail. "I did not come to beg. I am talking to friends, and making a win-win situation created," Geingob said. Geingob said those making irresponsible remarks should feel "ashamed" when they see the buildings, factories and roads being built across Africa, which bring tangible benefits to the people. During his talks with Chinese president Xi Jinping on Thursday last week, the two heads of state agreed to establish a comprehensive strategic partnership of cooperation. "China has been our all-weather friend, and now we are moving upward into a second phase," Geingob said while commenting on the elevation of ties. He stressed that China's investment in Namibia is not just "digging out resources," but also includes building industrial parks for technology transfer. "No country in the world has added so much value to our products as China has. China has done a lot of technology transfer and job creation," he said. Geingob also said the country would take the opportunity provided by the Belt and Road Initiative to train Namibia's youth and strengthen his country's technological and innovation development. "We will get benefits, witness changes, and create win-win situations with China," he said. During the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) summit in Johannesburg in 2015, at least 10 cooperation projects covering a wide range of fields from industrialisation to public health were announced. Geingob said those projects have led to a boom in infrastructure development in Africa, and many landlocked countries like Botswana and Zambia now have access to the sea. "The idea is regional integration," he said. Geingob also rebutted comments accusing China of being a neo-colonialist in Africa. "China never colonised any African country, China never treats us as second-class citizens," he said. There are no strings attached to China-funded projects, and China-Africa cooperation is on an equal footing, according to Geingob. "They are doing under our terms...they don't come and say 'don't behave like that.'" "We are mature, we can choose our friends, we can choose what we want, and what is good for us," Geingob said. "Let's go ahead to create a new partnership at a higher level to show them that they are wrong." - Xinhua/The Namibian