Organisers of Dreamstar talent show are set to host this year's preliminary auditions for university students this weekend at the University of Zimbabwe. The talent search show is an entertainment platform that seeks to empower local talented youths aged between 12 and 40, who are in the arts and culture sector to help them rise from the backstage to the official stage. In an interview, event spokesperson Tinashe Kitchen said all is set for the auditions. "We are excited to launch another edition of our growing talent show after successfully extending the programme to university students last year. "We are inviting all talented performers in form of singers, dancers, artists, poets, actors and magicians to come and participate," he said. The auditions will also be held at Midlands State University (MSU) the following weekend followed by Chinhoyi University of Technology (CUT) on May 5, with Great Zimbabwe University being the next stop on May 9, 2018. The university auditions will be rounded off in Bulawayo at the Bulawayo Polytechnic on May 26. The auditions which are also extended to the general public. For Harare they will be held at Longcheng Plaza on May 19 and date is yet to be announced for Bulawayo. Adapting to technology, show organisers will also introduce online auditions to cater for those that can not travel to stipulated venues. "We will also be introducing online auditions where people who cannot travel to the auditions can submit their applications via WhatsApp,email or Facebook the details will be available on our website. "A limited number of exceptional applicants will be selected to participate at the semi-finals," said Kitchen. This year's winner of the Dreamstar show is expected to walk away with a grand prize of $3 000 and trip to China, scholarship opportunities among many other prizes. The show is sponsored by the China Africa Economic and Culture Exchange and Research Centre, the Embassy of China to Zimbabwe, National Arts Council of Zimbabwe, Emirates Airlines, Chibuku-Delta Beverages and Jacaranda Culture and Media Corporation.