At the end the first Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP I) ended tow years ago, the coverage of clean drinkable water supply was 82, 91 and 84 percent at rural, urban and country level respectively. This was through providing 15 liters of clean water per person in a day within the radius of 1.5 Kilometer at the rural level and 20 liters of clean water per person in a day within the radius of 0.5 Kilometer at urban areas. The second Growth and Transformation Plan (GTP II) was planned to put the nation at the level of the middle income countries and new standard was formulated for the clean drinking water supply coverage. Since then, the standards are implemented efficiently. According to the new standard, at the end of GTP II the rural clean drinking water coverage grows to 25 liters of clean water per person in a day within the radius of one kilometer at the rural level which makes it 85 percent. Out of this, 20 percent will be from tap water. Similarly, the urban clean water supply is planned to be 100 liters per person in a day at the first grade towns. As well, 80 liters, 60 liters, 50 liters and 40 liters at the second, third, fourth and fifth grade towns respectively. This takes the urban clean water coverage to 75 percent. According to the report of the Ministry of Water, Irrigation and Electricity, in the middle of the five years GTP II, the clean water supply coverage has grown to 68.5, 54.7 and 65.7 percent at rural, urban and country level respectively. This means, out of the 100 million population of the nation, 65.7 million or 65.7 percent of the population are benefitted from the clean drinking water supply so far. Since 1991, about 2.777 million people became users of clean drinking water by over 3.777 billion Ethiopian Birr government investment in the sector. All the states and city councils of the nation were beneficiaries. With much being achieved in promoting potable water supply coverage, there remains lots of work ahead to reach many areas and quench their trust.