The event on everyone's lips and Nigeria's first Bridal Fashion Week is a few weeks away. Find out all you need to know about the ultimate bridal experience happening in Lagos from the 4th to the 6th of May, 2018. What is LBFW? Lagos Bridal Fashion Week is a three-day experience that will feature a curated list of Pan-African bridal designers for the daily runway shows and brands at the BFW Bridal Boutique. The boutique will house a collection of vendors retailing bridal (and wedding) items as well as private rooms for consultations with designers and bridal stylists. When & Where is it taking place? From the 4th to the 6th of May, 2018 at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace, Victoria Island. Who Can Attend? Brides -to-be, Groom-to-be, Parents, Bridal Fashion Enthusiasts, Bridal Stylists, Aspiring Brides & Grooms, Friends of soon to be couples etc... What will be happening at Lagos Bridal Fashion Week: 1. Daily Installations by: Andrea Iyamah Mai Atafo April by Kunbi 2. Runway shows featuring designers from Africa, UK and USA. Day One Elizabeth and Lace Shadiat Alaasoke Bibi Lawrence Elvira Jude Yemi Shoyemi Day Two Mazelle Otumemine Patrick Ayanski Yinka Alli (UK) Alonuko (UK) David Tlale (SA) Kimono Kollection Brides by Nona (USA) Day Three Magnetic Elegance Valerie David Taryor Gabriels Toju Foyeh Hudayya Ese Azenabor (US) Kosibah (UK) 3. The Bridal Boutique featuring exhibitors, pop up stores retailing bridal fashion items. Some of the exhibitors you will find include: Bridals by Ivy Patrick Ayanski Donna Tyler Jewellery Fuxion Trends Dexter and Dexter Buwie Fabrics CLAN LBFW campaign video 4. One on one consultation with your favorite local and international designers. You can book a consultation by clicking this link 5. Masterclasses by leading bridal industry experts. Lagos Bridal Fashion Week is organized by Call Her Classic Fashion Agency @callherclassic Buy your tickets here For Exhibition Enquiries:exhibitors@lagosbridalfw.com For Press Enquiries: press@lagosbridalfw.com Instagram: @lagosbridalfw Facebook: Lagos Bridal Fashion Week Call: +234 902 566 9627 Email: info@lagosbridalfw.com