Ghana champions Aduana Stars gave their bid to qualify for their first group stage a major boost with a 6-1 win against Fosa Juniors of Madagascar on Sunday in Dormaa. It was the visitors who broke the deadlock after four minutes through Alan Randrianantenaina to silence the home crowd. The goal gingered the hosts who then accepted the challenge and mounted pressure on Fosa Juniors in search of the equalizer. The lead only lasted four minutes as Elvis Opoku scored from 25 yards out to give the home fans some ray of hope. The story then became one-way affair as Aduana switched to their attacking best keeping the Fosa backline busier. On one of such occasions, Aduana won a penalty after Justice Anane was fouled by his marker on 33 minutes, and Sam Adams stepped up and scored, making it 2-1. Seven minutes later, the host were awarded a second penalty after Fosa goalkeeper Damien Ramaritany fouled Aduana's Bright Adjei in the box. Adams again stepped up to expertly covert the kick to make it 3-1 for the hosts at the break. Back from recess, the story remained same as Aduana kept piling more pressure on Fosa in search of more goals. The fourth goal came from yet another penalty after Zakaria Mumuni was impeded in the vital area yet again by Ramaritany. Mumuni made no mistake to make it four for the host. The 'Ogya' lads were not done yet as Opoku and Adjei scored added two quick goals in the 84th and two minutes later to complete the rout. Results Friday, 6 April 2018 Bidvest (South Africa) 1-1 Enyimba (Nigeria) CF Mounana (Gabon) 1-1 El Masry (Egypt) Rayon Sports (Rwanda) 3-0 Costa do Sol (Mozambique) Saturday, 7 April 2018 Zanaco (Zambia) 0-2 Raja Club Athletic (Morocco) AS Vita (DR Congo) 1-0 CS la Mancha (Congo) Saint George (Ethiopia) 1-0 CARA (Congo) UD Songo (Mozambique) 3-1 Hilal Obeid (Sudan) Plateau United (Nigeria) 2-1 USM Alger (Algeria) Young Africans (Tanzania) 2-0 Wolaitta Dicha (Ethiopia) Generation Foot (Senegal) 3-1 RS Berkane (Morocco) Williamsville (Cote d'Ivoire) 2-0 Niefang (Equatorial Guinea) Sunday, 8 April 2018 El Hilal (Sudan) 2-0 Akwa United (Nigeria) Gor Mahia (Kenya) 1-0 Supersport (South Africa) Aduana (Ghana) 6-1 Fosa Juniors (Madagascar) ASEC Mimosas (Cote d'Ivoire) 1-0 CR Belouizdad (Algeria) MFM (Nigeria) 0-1 Djoliba (Mali)