The Ohorongo Otavi Community Trust last week donated 1 500 tubes of sunscreen lotion valued at N$130 258 for use by people living with albinism in Namibia. The OOCT joined forces with Support Ulm e.V., and donated the tubes, which were handed over to the health ministry's oncology department at the Windhoek Central Hospital some two weeks ago. Namibia has more than 2 000 people living with albinism, and all of them need sunscreen because of the sensitivity of their skins. The representative of the Support in Namibia of Albinism Sufferers Requiring Assistance (Sinasra), Dr Peter Stoermer, expressed gratitude with the donation. "The donation came at a time when the Windhoek Central Hospital (responsible for distribution), was running low on sunscreen lotions. We are very grateful to receive these lotions from Support Ulm e.V., which is special in its formula, and is suitable for persons with albinism. There are some sun lotions which will not withstand the heat we have in Namibia," stressed Stoermer. The OOCT's spokesperson, Esther Mbathera, said they hope the contribution will go a long way. "We have committed an additional year for this donation, and we also hope our contribution will go a long way in preventing sun-related cancer, which can cause premature deaths among people with albinism," she noted. The lotion has a special ingredient, which provides protection for the skin cells against the scorching Namibian sun. "The Ministry of Health and Social Services will distribute the lotions to the affected people, and those raising children with albinism. Meanwhile, Dr Peggy Mvula from the oncology department within the health ministry said it is possible to prevent skin cancer among people living with albinism. "It is possible that we can prevent skin cancer among persons living with albinism if they can get help early, especially if parents bring the children to the medical facilities at an early age," said Mvula. Stoermer added that Sinasra's primary concern is the survival of people living with albinism, ensuring their livelihood, and offering them a fair standard of living. The donated lotions will be given to people with albinism free of charge by the oncology department at the Windhoek Central Hospital and various other health centres countrywide.