Ministry of Foreign Affairs rejected U.S. Congress resolution 128 - a human rights-centered resolution against the Ethiopian government - claiming it untimely and inappropriate. Ministry Spokesperson Meles Alem told The Ethiopian Herald yesterday that the government of Ethiopia remains committed to its citizens in promoting accountability, justice, freedom, and the rule of law. The Spokesperson added that the Ethiopian government has been exerting its utmost efforts to step up the protection and promotion of human rights and advance good governance as these are pillars to the democratization process of the country. Over the past several months, the ruling party and the government of Ethiopia have been operating under new political dynamics, launching bold reforms aimed at increasing transparency and widening the country's democratic space. Some of these initiatives include releasing prisoners, and working on stabilizing the situation in the region. Prime Minister Dr. Abiy Ahmed was sworn in last week and expressed the political will of the leadership to urgently undertake the multifaceted reforms that could address the grievance and concerns of the society in short course of time, as to him. This momentum has created optimism in the country encouraging the leadership to embark on a promising future. "That is why the government of Ethiopia believes H.Res.128 is untimely and inappropriate." At this crucial juncture, when the government is working to implement bold reforms, this resolution tries to undermine the new political dynamism and fails to recognize the call made by the Prime Minister to create all inclusive political platforms. While Ethiopia values its bilateral relations with the United States and works to promote regional peace and security in the Horn of Africa, the resolution undermines its sovereignty, the Spokesperson noted. The relation between Ethiopia and the US is based on common interest, sovereign equality and mutual benefit. The government of Ethiopia recognizes the right and duty of the US congress to pass any resolution; however, the resolution has no validity as far as Ethiopia is concerned, the Meles underlined. "It has no impact whatsoever. It has nothing to do with the State Department and it has nothing to do with the White House. It is just the opinion of members of the congress." Further, the Spokesperson stated that the resolution is counterproductive and it stands against the important partnership between Ethiopia and US. Members of the house who cosponsored the resolution conspicuously failed to recognize the changing reality on the ground.