A national culinary competition and a food exhibition were organised yesterday by the Home Economics Unit of the Ministry of Gender Equality, Child Development and Family Welfare at the National Women Development Centre in Phoenix, in the context of World Home Economics Day observed annually on the 21 of March. The objectives of the initiative, in line with this year's theme 'Home Economics Literacy: Skills for Healthy and Sustainable Cooking', were to promote healthy and sustainable cooking; vulgarise the consumption of food security crops and vegetables for a healthier and sustainable lifestyle. Present on the occasion, the Minister of Gender Equality, Child Development and Family Welfare, Mrs Roubina Jadoo-Jaunbocus, highlighted that Home Economics is the art of building and maintaining a functional household to improve the life of the family and the society at large. Home Economics, she stated, certainly helps to develop cooking skills but also encompasses other important values and life skills such as self-care, childcare, budget management and sustainable living. The Home Economics Unit, added the Minister, is in line with Government's objective of promoting the socio-economic empowerment of the community and draws from a range of disciplines to achieve optimal and sustainable living for individuals, families and communities. She further stated that the activities spearheaded by the Unit provide a platform to discover and develop latent talents and advocate for the empowerment of women by reinforcing their capacities. On that score, Mrs Jadoo-Jaunbocus underlined that it is imperative that both men and women are equipped with the basic knowledge, values and skills of Home Economics, so that they take actions to improve their own well-being as well as that of their children. Furthermore, she pointed out that it is high time to break the gender stereotype regarding Home Economics being solely about women's domestic work. While reflecting on the increase of unhealthy lifestyle and health-related issues such as obesity, the Minister emphasised that food preparation skills could be a valuable tool to make informed decisions about food choices and dietary needs. According to her, the theme of this year's celebration helps to raise awareness on the importance of healthy eating and how locally available products can be used for a more sustainable lifestyle. The culinary competition Some 100 participants from the regions of Black River/Plaine Wilhems, Grand Port /Savanne, Pamplemousses/Rivière du Rempart, and Moka/Flacq took part in the competition. Winners from each region were rewarded with a gift and Certificate of Participation. The dishes of the participants were assessed on the following criteria: taste, texture, creativity, nutritional value and sustainability. In addition, trainees of the Home Economics Unit were given a platform to market their products.