Jos — The versatile African actress Rahama Sadau has denied the story making rounds that she lambasted ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar over his reaction to President Buhari's speech that Nigerian youth are lazy. Sadau in an exclusive statement sent to Daily Trust Wednesday also explained that she didn't endorsed President Buhari as her candidate for the forthcoming 2019 election. The actress who had played a vital role in TV soap opera 'Sons of the Caliphate' said that it was with a heavy heart that she made the statement in order to clarify the rumors that have been in circulation about her alleged comments on Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the presidential aspirants of the party. The Kannywood diva added she has been a proud citizen of her beloved country, Nigeria, and as much as everyone is entitled to freedom of speech and electoral choice, it wasn't in her nature to resort to such slanderous means to convey her opinions or views, "being highly aware of my platform and the expectations that come with being in the public eye," Sadau who starred in Kannywood blockbuster films such as 'Rariya', 'Shakka' and 'Kanwar Dubarudu' expressed her utmost disappointment at the rumours making the rounds. "I want to set the record straight, that I have taken a political stance with recent affairs concerning the leadership of our beloved country. I haven't endorsed any political candidate, nor political party and neither political movement, and vehemently maintain that I have not said anything of the sort to any media house or outlet, that may suggest that any part of the articles in circulation, is true." The actress implored the general public to disregard such news and to kindly refrain from smearing her good image in the mud over statements that were never made by her. "I also implore the media to put good and honest journalism to use, by making efforts to verify alleged statements from me, before sharing them as facts. Thank you and may God bless you all." She concluded.