To commemorate a century of innovation in tractors, Opportunity International partner John Deere  is hosting the John Deere ICT4D Application Development Competition to improve access to tractors for African farmers.  They’re inviting African developers to build the digital solutions that will shape the next century. Making use of agriculture and technology in creative and unconventional ways will help improve access to affordable mechanization services for smallholder farmers in Africa. Since teamwork is a big part of what has made John Deere successful, they are looking for applications from teams of three (3) to five (5) people, with at least one female, to register and compete. Winners will be featured at the ICT4D 2018 Conference, attended by technology leaders from around the world. An esteemed team of judges will select (3) three finalists and announce the winning teams at the ICT4D 2018 Conference to be held in Lusaka, Zambia. The winning teams will receive USD$2,000, USD$1,000, and USD$500 for first, second and third place respectively. Applications are due here by April 19, 2018:  https://bit.ly/2GAK80W Provide your email and click “next” to submit your application. This is an opportunity for developers to create and submit technology tools that: THE PROCESS Stage 1 - 28th March to 19th April 2018 Submission of applications Stage 2 - 20th April to 25th April 2018 Shortlisting and selection of best 3 teams/solutions Stage 3 - 27th April - 4th May 2018 Virtual support to best 3 teams Stage 4 (Final) - 8th May 2018 Announcement of winners/Prize giving at the ICT4D conference in Lusaka, Zambia. SELECTION CRITERIA: The selection criteria is focused on the following four areas: Originality & Innovation Business Model Customer Validation Execution & Design PRIZES Winners will be featured at the ICT4D 2018 Conference, attended by technology leaders from around the world. An esteemed team of judges will select (3) three finalists and announce the winning teams at the ICT4D 2018 Conference to be held in Lusaka, Zambia. The winning teams will receive USD$2,000, USD$1,000, and USD$500 for first, second and third place respectively. DISCLAIMER WHAT TO SUBMIT Please provide the following links describing your idea (app or website), explain what your product is (software, technology, intervention, design, research, prototype etc) and how it works. Refer to the selection criteria: For more info: https://opportunity.org/john-deere-at-ict4d and enter your email address. Official hashtags: #Apps4JD #ICT4D ABOUT OPPORTUNITY INTERNATIONAL Opportunity International is a global nonprofit organization that helps people in developing countries work their way out of poverty. Since 1971, the organization has provided more than $12 billion in loans to help 24 million clients launch and expand businesses, feed and educate their children and create jobs in their communities. In 2017, more than 10 million clients in 22 countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe, were using an Opportunity International loan, savings account, insurance policy or training to improve their lives. Through microfinance and complementary products and services in education, agriculture and health, the organization has helped clients create or sustain 17.3 million jobs on the way to achieving its goal of 20 million jobs by 2020. More than 90 percent of Opportunity’s loan clients are women who would otherwise likely not have access to financial services because of legal and cultural gender inequities. The global headquarters of Opportunity International are in Chicago, with other key offices in Australia, Canada, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The organization serves clients through a network of more than 23,000 people worldwide. Discover more at opportunity.org or join the conversation on facebook.com/opportunityintl and twitter.com/opportunityintl. MEDIA CONTACT Christina Koliopoulos | Opportunity International | 312.487.5064| CKoliopoulos@opportunity.org