Zanaco winger Ernest Mbewe insists they are still in contention and have not travelled to Morocco to merely fulfil their second leg clash against Raja Club Athletic in Casablanca on Wednesday. The Zambian club trails the three-time African champions 2-0 from the first leg played on April 7 at the National Heroes Stadium in Lusaka. Zanaco must now beat Raja 3-0 in Casablanca to ensure their passage to the mini-league phase of the second-tier continental club championship. "The game against Raja will be very tough but football is a funny sport, we can just cause an upset away," Mbewe said. "But I believe in my teammates and myself. The most important thing is we have to work hard as a unit, focus throughout and the 90 minutes will determine out fate." Zanaco coach Mumamba Numba has made two tactical changes to the team for the trip to Casablanca. Defender Jimmy Nakena, who featured in the first leg has been left out of the traveling party, and Zimbabwean defender Zimiseleni Moyo replaces him. Striker Moussa Soulaymanou has also stepped in for Guily Manziba whilst midfielder Boyd Musonda is out injured. Zanaco will be hoping for better fortunes in Morocco in what will be their second visit there in less than a year. They lost 1-0 away last July to the eventual winners of the 2017 Total CAF Champions League Wydad Athletic Club at the group stage, a result which saw the Zambian club miss out on a quarter-final spot. Fixtures Tuesday, 17 April 2018 CS la Mancha (Congo) vs AS Vita (DR Congo) (0-1) USM Alger (Algeria) vs Plateau United (Nigeria) (1-2) El Masry (Egypt) vs Mounana (Gabon) (1-1) CR Belouizdad (Algeria) vs ASEC Mimosas (Cote d'Ivoire) (0-1) Wednesday, 18 April 2018 Raja Club Athletic (Morocco) vs Zanaco (Zambia) (2-0) CARA (Congo) vs Saint George (Ethiopia) (0-1) Akwa United (Nigeria) vs El Hilal (Sudan) (0-2) Supersport (South Africa) vs Gor Mahia (Kenya) (0-1) Hilal Obied (Sudan) vs UD Songo (Mozambique) (1-3) Enyimba (Nigeria) vs Bidvest (South Africa) (1-1) Fosa Juniors (Madagascar) vs Aduana (Ghana) (1-6) Wolaitta Dicha (Ethiopia) vs Young Africans (Tanzania) (0-2) RS Berkane (Morocco) vs Generation Foot (Senegal) (1-3) Niefang (Equatorial Guinea) vs Williamsville (0-2) Djoliba (Mali) vs MFM (Nigeria) (1-0) Costa do Sol (Mozambique) vs Rayon Sports (Rwanda0 (0-3)