THE recent good rains have come too late for crop farmers in the Kunene region, where they have already lost seeds, a crop production expert has said. In an interview with Nampa on Tuesday, Venaune Hepute said too much water during late rainy seasons, such as what the country is experiencing now, negatively affect crop farmers. Most crop farmers in the region have not been planting for the past seven to eight years due to the drought, he said, but the recent rains will have given them false hope. These farmers will waste money on planting, which will not profit them at all. "Many of them will put their last seeds in the ground, hoping that it will harvest fruit or vegetables. The seeds farmers planted earlier have been suffocated by water, translating into a loss for them," he explained. A cattle farmer engaged in small-scale crop production in Kunene, Nikita Mukuaruuze, told Nampa that he had lost all the seeds he planted earlier because of the recent rains. Treasurer general of the Namibia National Farmers Union, Amon Kapi echoed Mukuaruuze and Hepute's sentiments in that those farmers who planted earlier lost everything to the rain. Hepute urged weather forecast services in Namibia to give early warnings to the entire country, including farmers, to avoid losses. "Weather forecasting and predictions must be revealed to local farmers at an early stage to allow them to plan properly," he suggested. Farmers should also be made aware in advance of when it will rain, for how long it will rain, and how much rain would be received, said Hepute, adding that this will help farmers to plant accordingly, and they will know what crops to plant that will survive the duration of that rainy season. "Farmers' unions should also equip farmers with knowledge on what crops to plant during which rainy season," he added. A season such as the recent one, which Hepute described as a short duration variety, will be good for farmers to plant cowpeas which can adapt easily to the weather. "I would not advise farmers to plant maize as it is very sensitive to frost and may not survive the rain duration the country is experiencing at the moment," he stated. - Nampa