Several parts of the country will continue receiving moderate rainfall for the next seven days, according to Kenya Meteorological Department. Kenya Meteorological Department director Peter Ambenje, however, said heavy rainfall is expected over parts of the Central highlands, Nairobi, Western, South Rift, Northeast and Southeastern lowlands from today to Friday morning. He also said the South Coast is also expected to experience heavy rainfall on Friday. Currently several parts of the country especially the Coast, parts of Eastern and North Eastern are receiving heavy rainfall that has resulted in floods. THUNDERSTORMS Mr Ambenje said that the past seven days were marked with an increase in total rainfall amounts reported over several parts of the country with Kitui station recording the highest seven-day total rainfall of 254.1 millimetres, which is classified as heavy rainfall. The same station also recorded the highest amount of rainfall within 24 hours - 163.9 millimetres on April 7, 2018. According to the latest seven-day forecast released on Monday by the weatherman covering between April 10 and 16, Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties will experience morning rains giving way to afternoon and evening showers, and thunderstorms over few places. FEW PLACES The Central highlands, which covers counties of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka Nithi, will experience cloudy mornings with a possibility of rains over few places giving way to sunny intervals for much of the forecast period. Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale, counties lying in the Coastal strip, are expected to experience morning and early afternoon showers over few places for much of the week. A similar weather pattern is expected in the North Eastern region - Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties - where rain is expected in the morning over several places on Wednesday and Thursday and over few places on the remaining days. The afternoons will experience showers over several places on Wednesday and Thursday, reducing to few places in the remainder of the days. LOWLANDS The Lake Victoria basin counties of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori will experience mainly sunny intervals in the morning with a possibility of rains over few places for much of the forecast period. Showers and thunderstorms will be experienced over several places in the afternoon for the next seven days. The same weather pattern will be replicated in the counties lying on the highlands West, Central and South of the Rift Valley such as Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kajiado, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. The Southeastern lowlands counties - Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta - will experience mainly sunny intervals with a possibility of rains over few places in the morning for the next seven days. This will then give way to showers in the afternoon over few places throughout the forecast period.