Gauteng MEC for Roads and Transport, Ismail Vadi, today launched a R90 million Road D670 rehabilitation project between Bronkhorstspruit and Ekangala, east of Tshwane. The 19km road project - wholly funded by the Department - was completed eight months ahead of schedule. Road D670 is located north of Bronkhorstspruit towards the R513 intersection and forms part of the northern corridor. The rehabilitated road will not only ensure continuous and effective operations of the coal power station but also provide safer conditions for daily commuters traveling to work, especially Ekangala residents working in Bronkhorstspruit, Cullinan, Rayton, Bapsfontein and Delmas. MEC Vadi said that the completion of the project ahead of schedule demonstrated the Department's commitment to adhering to set timetables and allocated budgets. The road carries heavy traffic volumes, including coal trucks running between various mines and power stations. As a result, the road condition deteriorated and was in need of rehabilitation. "The rehabilitated road will stimulate local economic participation and growth. Furthermore, it will improve traffic capacity, particularly coal haulers travelling from Ekangala towards the N4," said Vadi. "This is part of the Gauteng provincial government's efforts to roll out road infrastructure aimed at stimulating economic growth," he emphasized. The project's objectives included improving the structural and functional integrity of the road by strengthening the pavement structure and providing a new asphalt overlay. Vadi added that the project also provided skills development to local labour as well as empowerment of BBBEE contractors, with the main contractor sub-contracting a percentage of work to local SMMEs. "The project was undertaken through labour intensive methods and preference given to local SMMEs in pursuit of the thirty percent sub-contracting requirements. Local labour employed included females and youth," he said. Issued by: Gauteng Roads and Transport