Liverpool — Everton Football Club is delighted to announce Steven Pienaar has become the Club's first official Everton International Ambassador. South African Pienaar, who amassed more than 200 appearances for the Toffees, will be taking up an ambassadorial role that will see him focus on supporting commercial activities for the Club and its Official Club Partners, as well as helping to continue to build the profile of Everton Football Club across the globe. The skilful winger represented his country on more than 60 occasions - captaining them a handful of times - and was a key player in South Africa's World Cup squads in 2002 and 2010. Widely regarded as one of Africa's greatest players in the modern era, Pienaar's global appeal and recognition will help to further elevate the profile of Everton Football Club on the international stage. Speaking about his new role as Everton International Ambassador, 36-year-old Pienaar said: "I have felt enormous affection for the Club since the day I first signed and I am both honoured and delighted to become an official International Ambassador. "Everton Football Club is very special to me and I look forward to further developing our unique bond in my new role and helping to spread the word of its fantastic work. This is a very proud day for me and I am delighted to be returning to a club that made me feel so welcome as a player." Alan McTavish, Head of Commercial at Everton Football Club, said: "Steven was one of the Club's most exciting players across the last decade. He had a great relationship with the Everton fans but also entertained fans of the Premier League for many years. He is one of the most recognised African players with continental and international appeal and we are excited to start work in collaboration with both Steven and our commercial partners for the benefit of all concerned. "This agreement sees us welcome one of the Club's great players back into our Everton Family and we are all looking forward to working together to support the ongoing growth strategy of the Club."