Arusha — Tour operators here have expressed their bitterness against countless police checks on vehicles taking visitors to tourist sites from Arusha and the Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA). They said some barriers along the popular routes were unnecessary, likening the so-called fines on alleged traffic offences to a syndicate fleecing the tour companies of their hard earned money. "We are not against the police checks, but they should be systematic. There should be designated areas, not everywhere," lamented Mr Andrew Malalika, the director of Jackpot Tours and Safaris. He cited the a distance of 15 kilometres from Arusha Airport to the city centre had between five or so road blocks mounted by the police. Between Arusha and Karatu there are at least 15 such barriers. "These are not necessary. They are cumbersome and only waste time of our guests who have to rush to the national parks and to the airports to go back home," he said. Mr Malalika, who is a member of the Arusha-based lobby group, Tanzania Association of Tour Operators (Tato), called on the authorities to consider reducing the number of road blocks to save time. His comment came in the wake of alleged harassment of drivers taking tourists from the US to the Sirari border post on March 20, during which, they were forced to pay Sh90,000 as fines for traffic offences they claimed were framed. The trio, who spoke on condition of anonymity alleged police manning the Makutano (near Musoma) - Sirari road on the said day were only interested in extracting money from them. The drivers were ferrying 18 American visitors to the border town from the Kirawira Tented Camp in the Serengeti National Park. "We were accused of speeding, but the police officers seemed only interested in taking money from us," claimed one of the agitated driver-cum-tour guide in an interview with The Citizen. "They will only take photos of our vehicles on departure from one check point and post them to the following barrier. At times we are accused of leaving the station without clearance." The trio are working with a famous tour company in Arusha with over 300 fleet of tour vans. The 200-plus Tato members alone have about 10,000 tour vans operating across the country. Although each of the them was forced to part with Sh30,000 as fine, the drivers told The Citizen in an interview over the weekend that they were taking the matter to the higher authorities. "We had to pay in order to ensure our visitors crossed the (Tanzania/Kenya) border in time to connect their flights back home. "But there is no justification," he complained, claiming that some police officers at the barriers on that day behaved recklessly by taking alcohol and caring the least while on duty. Another tour operator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said both the KIA-Arusha-Karatu-Serengeti and Serengeti-Sirari routes were not only notorious for police checks, but harassment of tour guides. "Tourists are often embarrassed and wonder if this country is under curfew," he said. When reached for comment, Tato executive secretary Sirili Akko said the association would take the alleged harassment of the trio on March 20 in Mara region to the relevant authorities for action. "We don't need to communicate the obvious to these people every day. We should pull together to bring the badly needed foreign exchange to this country," he told The Citizen.