Government is giving particular attention to the health sector in Mauritius so as to enhance the quality of life of all citizens, said the Prime Minister, Minister of Home Affairs, External Communications and National Development Unit, Minister of Finance and Economic Development, Mr Pravind Kumar Jugnauth, today at Saint Pierre Farmers Centre. The Prime Minister made this statement following the launching, at the Centre, of an anti-influenza vaccination exercise for the 2018 winter season. The campaign aims at providing vaccines to the elderly population in order to protect them from influenza. Prime Minister Jugnauth, indicated that the vaccination campaign is a precautionary exercise conducted every year to protect the elderly population from complications due to influenza. Health, he emphasised, should remain a priority for each and every one. On this score, the Prime Minister appealed to the elderly population to protect their health and get themselves vaccinated by taking full advantage of the current exercise which will also cover different regions of Mauritius. Present at the launching, the Minister of Social Security, National Solidarity, and Environment and Sustainable Development, Mr Etienne Sinatambou, pointed out that the vaccination campaign is in line with the World Health Organization's Immunisation Week which will be celebrated by the end of April 2018. The Week will highlight the collective action needed to ensure that every person is protected from vaccine-preventable diseases, he said. Furthermore, the Minister highlighted the various measures that Government is providing to cater for the needs of senior citizens. These comprise: increase in old aged pension; setting up of a fourth Recreational Centre at Riambel; and, construction of two modern Homes. For his part, the Minister of Technology, Communication and Innovation, Mr Yogida Sawmynaden encouraged the elderly to adopt a healthy lifestyle so as to lead a harmonious life. Moreover, he underscored that the elderly, as vital guides, should continue to instill values in the younger generation, and, should be given due respect for their contribution in the society. Anti-influenza vaccination 2018 The vaccination exercise, being carried out from 4 April 2018 to 10 May 2018, will cover persons aged 60 and above, children with disabilities attending specialised schools, and persons of charitable institutions. In parallel with the launching at Saint Pierre Farmers Centre, the campaign is being carried out simultaneously at the Highlands Community Centre and Rivière du Rempart Youth Centre.