Wind farms, manifestations to Ethiopia's endeavors to green growth. Ethiopia is on implementing a Climate Resilient Green Economy (CRGE) since the outset of the strategy. And the nation continues representing the voice of Africa in various global climate forums. The nation is succeeding with climate smart green economy growth following its endeavors to protect the environment. The country prioritizes green economic growth through building mega hydropower dams, generating and harnessing geothermal energy as well as utilizing wind power in rural households. The nation is becoming a role model through promoting environmentaly healthy economic system. Wind and water power stations constructions, electric power operating railways construction in the city and from the capital city, Addis Ababa, to Djibouti as well as other pro climate projects are the main portrayals of the country's success for building a climate resilient green economy. In an exclusive interview with The Ethiopian Herald Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Climate Change Negotiation Director Debasu Bayleyegn said that the nation is registering a promising result in building a climate resilient green economy. The transportation sector is the prominent sector that showcases the country's endeavors regarding curbing carbon emission, he added. Smart parking constructions, only bicycle transportation ways in the city as well as the finalizing Addis-Djibouti rail ways are the manifestations towards succeeding climate resilient green economy development, he said. Addis Ababa Light Railway transportation line running from the city centre to East and West of the city opened on 20 September 2015 is contributing its part for the nation's green economy development. It paves ways for facilitating the city's transportation system hugely and advanced the green economy development strategies of the country. Further to this the introduction of modern rail way to the city plays a tangible role in national image building and promotes the good name of the capital of Africa. Industrial sector is the leading sector towards causing climate changes, posing its hardships and adverse impact on nature and human being. The smokes and wastes outflow from such industries is the major contributing factor towards the exacerbating environmental hazards. According to Debasu, the industrial parks constructing across the country are pro-environment and community that supports climate resilient green economy development strategy tremendously. "By default the situations of the industrial park is appropriate to curb environmental pollutions in various ways. The combination of different industrial factories together would be better to reuse its outputs and unnecessary wastes in one location after recycling it together." Further to this, constructing such industrial parks in different corners of the country would be important to follow up the factory's activities closely and control any situations doubtable of posing challenges on environmental healthiness, he said. He emphasized that huge industrial factories operating in cement, leather and textiles sectors should utilize energy efficient technological instruments to save power consumption and reduce carbon emission. He further said that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Forest division targets reducing more than seven million tons of carbon emissions. To achieve this target the coordination of every ministerial sector offices has to establish and organize a climate resilient green economy unit to mainstream, work on and meet the objectives of the national carbon emission reduction strategy. This year international donors have donated 65 million USD to the ministry to facilitate and strengthen the national objectives of building a climate resilient green economy. He finally called up on every citizen to be committed about protecting the environment and engage more in the ways to succeed the country's national goal of maintaining sustainable green economy without harming nature. Thus, everyone has a responsibility to be part of the mass public mobilizations in mass planting of tree seedlings, soil and water rehabilitations as well as be actively engaged in environmental protection activities. To sum up, if one segment of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change plans achieving this target the result would be more promising while every minister offices and private organizations cooperate together towards carbon emissions reductions. Keeping the environment free from pollution is the responsibility of everyone and should never be left only to the ministry. Nurturing best experiences is also fundamental to guarantee a climate resilient green economy growth.