Early this week in New York, Rwanda was elected to the executive board of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for a term of three years beginning 1st January 2019. Early this week in New York, Rwanda was elected to the executive board of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), for a term of three years beginning 1st January 2019. In a statement by Rwanda's permanent mission to the UN in New York, Valentine Rugwabiza says the elections were held during the coordination and management meeting of the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). Other African states elected to the board include Botswana, South Africa, Gambia and Cameroon. The Executive Board was created by General Assembly resolution 48/162 of 20 of December 1993 and is responsible for providing inter-governmental support to and supervision of the activities of UNDP, UNFPA and UNOPS. "As a member of the executive board, Rwanda will seek to ensure that the programme's and initiatives of UNDP are tailored to the needs of programme countries including Rwanda," reads part of the statement. "This is an important part of the work done through the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Rwanda to the United Nations and contributes towards ensuring that Rwanda has a voice in the international development system," it continues. The UNDP Executive Board is made up of representatives from 36 countries around the world who serve on a rotating basis. Through its Bureau, consisting of representatives from five regional groups, the Board oversees and supports the activities of UNDP, ensuring that the organization remains responsive to the evolving needs of programme countries. Key activities of the executive board include implementing the policies formulated by the General Assembly and the coordination and guidance received from the Economic and Social Council; receiving information from and give guidance to the head of each fund or programme on the work of each organization. The executive board also ensures that the activities and operational strategies of each fund or programme are consistent with the overall policy guidance set forth by the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council, in accordance with their respective responsibility set out in the United Nations Charter; among others.