(PART II) Many countries in Asia, Latin America, the Caribbean and the Middle-East have benefited from their Diasporas. For example, the Koreans, Chinese, Indians, Pakistanis, Vietnamese, the Jamaicans, Trinidadians, Bahamas, the Israelis, Palestinians; Somalis among many others have done a very admirable job in a variety of aspects in order to help the economy of their respective country of origin move forward. Even though, the Ethiopian Diaspora have done a good job in that regard, considering the number and the potential of the Ethiopian Diaspora, more can be done to help the economy of Ethiopia. Despite political differences, I believe Ethiopians in the Diaspora can have one and same agenda on development. Ethiopians in the Diaspora can agree to disagree on political differences; however, they can always agree on helping their country on economic issue. They should separate political differences with economic and developmental assistance to their country of origin. Economic assistance can among other things be done in either or the entire following manner: First, they can increase the amount of remittance they send to help their family and friends through official financial channels. Second, they can invest in their country of origin in areas of their preference and expertise and that can be done even from where they are. They can do this by pooling together their resources and establish share companies. They can, if they wish, also come back to their country of origin and settle for good, invest in their homeland temporarily or permanently and for that they can rest assured that there is a conducive and enabling environment for them here back home. It is when Africans help each other, cared for each other and their homeland that industrialized countries such as the G-8 come to their door step to help. It is imperative therefore, that the North-South cooperation continues to grow on a concrete and practical plan for partnership and for doing business. Since Africa has different levels of development and some have better leverage than others, the North-South Development Plan must consider among others, diversity of levels of development and different leverage for better implementation purposes. Although $50 billion a year is only 1/5th of 1% of the combined entire earning of the developed nations and thus may not go nearly far enough, the intention of the G-8 to make the African issue their number one agenda in their summit is indeed commendable. It is a very good start that one can say: way to go G-8! However, the implementation of this very good intention is yet to be seen. Even though, the donors have to follow strictly whether the aid is benefiting the poor or not, the G-8 should not impose cumbersome conditional ties on poor countries. On the other hand, the African nations have a lot to do in order for this good intention to have good implementation because they have to act as partners and not simply as receivers from the other side. They have to direct along with the G-8 partners the right economic approach to their respective development strategic plan and display the highest degree of unity and solidarity in global issues towards a greater articulation of their concerns and interests. Further, African countries must strive for better representation of their national interests in the international trading system and must maintain great solidarity among them (South-South cooperation) in order to achieve these goals. South-South trade should be enhanced and further market access from developing countries must continue to stimulate South-South trade, including through negotiations within the Global System of Preferences among Developing Countries. A lesson can be drawn from doing business with China in that regard. China is a big investor in many African countries and result oriented strategy transform between China and Africa has been working just fine. Africans must work hard to build their market economy and have a fair and equitable access within the western market. Whereas the G-8 nations, way far from the continent have been concerned about poverty in Ethiopia, some disgruntled Ethiopian intellectuals in the US and Europe have publicly opposed the G-8 debt relief and additional aid to their own country: Ethiopia. Whereas millions around the world are campaigning for debt relief and additional aid to Ethiopia, few toxic Diasporas and self appointed opposition political parties have been advocating just the opposite. What an irony and what a paradox. Isn't that a crime against humanity?