Driving into Kupferberg, one is greeted by a strong smell of waste, with some of the workers walking around with masks, while others have become so accustomed to the smell that they no longer wear any protection. Only registered vehicles are allowed into the site that is on the outskirts of Windhoek. The vehicles are weighed before they enter, and again before they leave the dump site. Waste is sorted according to type - paper, plastic, glass and the rest which is not organised - is compressed at the end of the day, and covered with sand. "Not everything is picked up," explained Helena Augustinus, engineering technician at the City of Windhoek. The solid waste management division under the City of Windhoek is responsible for disposing all solid waste generated within the city, and Kupferberg is the final destination for all things disposable. The aim is to reduce refuse, and where possible to reuse, reduce and recycle, with disposal being the last option, Augustinus added. The municipality invited the media on Wednesday to visit the waste disposal sites in the city, the Kupferberg waste disposal site outside Windhoek, and Rent-a-Drum, a private waste collecting company. Augustinus accompanied the group, and showed the possible sites where the public could dispose of waste. Windhoek has nine disposal sites in Okuryangava, Havana, Khomasdal, Otjomuise, Pionierspark, Eros, Ludwigsdorf, Brakwater, and Kleine Kuppe. The disposal site in Kleine Kuppe is strictly for residents, as only vehicles below 1 tonne are allowed in. The public is required to register at the entrance before entering the site. Waste such as electronic equipment, building rubble and garden refuse can be disposed of at the Kleine Kuppe site. Augustinus said the city is trying to discourage residents from illegally dumping waste in undesignated open spaces. If someone is caught illegally dumping, that person gets a transgression notice, which gives them a week to remove their waste, or face a fine. The solid waste management department offers services to the public, such as domestic refuse removal, once a week at all households with a green wheelie bin, and at least once a week from all households in the informal settlements that have been supplied with black bins. The final visit was to Rent-a-Drum, which sorts waste according to type and sends some to South Africa, and others to local businesses such as Ohorongo Cement. Rent-a-Drum picks up recyclables twice a week from the Kupferberg landfill site, and more waste is picked up from shops and businesses. Plant manager Abraham Reinhardt said they receive around 115 tonnes of clear bags per month that are collected from households. They have additional offices at Swakopmund, Walvis Bay and Oshakati.