Efforts towards diversifying Nigeria's economy cannot be complete without rejuvenating the billion naira Courier, Logistics and Transport industry through pragmatic policies and adequate managerial core-competences. This was one of the primary reasons the Courier and Logistics Management Institute (CLMI), in partnership with tertiary institutions in Nigeria and overseas, seeks to develop human talents to lead the sector, especially with the uptake of e-commerce. The Chairman of CLMI, Dr. Simon Emeje, made the observations at the weekend during a press briefing on the forthcoming investiture, awards and book presentation holding on April 12, at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos. Similarly, the institute has perfected plans to commence the award of Degrees and Professional Diploma in Courier and Logistics Management; Courier and Transport Management, by partnering universities and polytechnics within and outside Nigeria. "The Institute is the first of its kind in the whole world, having focus on courier, logistics, transport and management. There is no institute of this magnitude across the globe that combines the four key areas. The closest is on logistics and transport. We are here to fill that gap. "We are collaborating with Universities because our license does not permit us to award Degree/HND certificates. However, we can run professional programmes," he said. He added that, so far, in liaising with the universities, CLMI has developed a curriculum from first year to the fifth year for the undergraduate and postgraduate studies in the field, adding that economic prospects in the industry are many. "World over, every human being is covered by these four areas- Courier, Logistics, Management and Transport (CLMI). Most times, people are not conscious of the operations in these areas. We are trying to ignite that in Nigerians. So, we want people to know these are areas you can professionalise; that is, you are made to do things better." "Courier is time sensitive which is applicable in every aspect of our endeavours either virtual or physical. Logistics will tell you how to process goods, store and distribute them to the lastmile (end user).