An award ceremony for the second Heritage Short Film Competition organised by the National Heritage Fund (NHF) in collaboration with the Mauritius Film Development Corporation on the theme "Contribution of our heritage in nation building" was held yesterday at the Rajiv Gandhi Science Centre in Bell Village. The ceremony lies in the context of activities to commemorate the International Day for Monuments and Sites 2018, observed on 18 April. The Minister of Arts and Culture, Mr Prithvirajsing Roopun, and other personalities were present on the occasion. The film 'Le Batelage' by Mr Nunkoo Pravesh won the first prize of this competition. The second prize went to Mr Ramroi Krishnaduth for 'Hamni Ke Pechaan' and Mr Ramroj Manish won the third prize for his film 'Nou Pays, nou Heritage'. The Special Jury Prize was awarded to Mr Durbory Raghav for 'Mau Zistwar' In his address on that occasion, Minister Roopun underlined that the International Day for Monuments and Sites offers an opportunity to the population to reflect on the importance of cultural heritages in Mauritius and their impact in their lives, promote awareness of its diversity, and draw attention to its vulnerability. On this score, he made an appeal to the population to double their efforts and to adopt a sense of ownership for the preservation, conservation and restoration of our rich cultural heritage and to pass on this rich culture to the future generations. The Minister also called for the collaboration of the private sector to participate actively in the preservation of the cultural and natural heritage. He enumerated on the ways synergies can be strengthened, namely by ensuring the right to creativity and the opening of new avenues and prospects between the public and the private sector. Moreover, Mr Roopun highlighted that Government is investing massively in the preservation and restoration of the heritage sites in Mauritius. Government has made provision for some Rs 500 million for renovation works at the Port Louis Theatre, Plaza Theatre and the Town Hall of Curepipe, he added. For his part, the Chairman of NHF, Mr Ramchurn, pointed out that Mauritius has more than 200 cultural sites and that there is a need to educate the population, in particular the youth, of the country's rich cultural heritage for the promotion and protection of the sites. The following Heritage Sites will be opened to the public free of charge in the context of the International Day for Monuments and Sites 2018 on 21 and 22 April 2018 from 09.00 hrs to 16.00 hrs. They are State House, Reduit; Aapravasi Ghat World Heritage Site, Port Louis; Le Morne Cultural Landscape and International Slave Route Monument, Le Morne; Domaine des Aubineaux, Forest Side; Maison Saint Aubin, Saint Aubin; Domaine de Bois Cheri, Bois Cheri; Château Riche en Eau, Riche en Eau; Martello Tower, La Preneuse; National History Museum, Mahebourg; Robert Edward Hart Memorial Museum, Souillac; Frederik Hendrik Museum, Vieux Grand-Port; SSR Memorial Centre for Culture, Port Louis; La Citadelle, Port Louis; Vagrant Depot, GRNW; La Citadelle, Port Louis; Bras d'eau National Park; SSR Botanical Garden, Pamplemousses; Postal Museum, Port Louis (Saturday 21 April 2018 only).