Modimolle Mayor, Anellie Van Staden, has expressed hope that last week's heavy downpours in the dry Modimolle and Mookgopong will assist to avert further discomfort in the two Waterberg towns of Limpopo. The rain drenched the two towns for two days in succession last week, raising water levels at Donkerpoort and Frikkie Geyser (Welgevonden) dams from 14, 96 percent and 16 percent respectively. Two weeks ago the towns were left with less than 80 days of drinking water, sparking fears that the current drought would continue for much longer. Addressing a media briefing after the blitz, Mayor Van Staden said she was pleased that the rains came down on World Water Day and expressed hope that the showers would make a difference on dam levels in the area. However, she appealed to the locals to continue saving water as the dry winter season approaches. "As the municipality we will continue to urge our consumers to save water so that we have enough during winter. Furthermore, we will continue our partnership with Magalies Water, DWS and Coca-Cola Beverages SA in the fight against the scourge of drought," the Mayor said. The Department of Water and Sanitation recently partnered with Modimolle-Mookgopong Local Municipality, Magalies Water and Coca-Cola Beverages SA in a visit to Modimolle during World Water Day ( 22nd March). The partnership was prompted by the alarming water situation in the two towns that forced the local municipality to impose severe water restrictions. Consequently, the municipality took stringent measures towards the reduction of the use of water from 120 litres to 60 litres per person per day. In addition, the municipality has put aside R18 million for the replacement of its ailing water infrastructure. The DWS officials, drawn from Pretoria and Polokwane, led a strong multi-stakeholder team that visited schools, shopping centres and an old age village in Modimolle to educate locals about the importance of water conservation in all aspects of life. The team visited five primary and three high schools in Phagameng Township and the suburbs of Modimolle. The officials blitzed their hosts with leaflets and documents containing information on water saving tips as well as understanding the water by-laws. Furthermore, several meetings are scheduled with farmers, car wash owners and local business people across the spectrum to talk about the dire water situation faced by residents of both towns. A similar blitz is scheduled to take place later in Mookgopong. The DWS hydrologists have tested an estimated 105 boreholes in Waterberg District that include Vaalwater, Zandrivier, Roedtan, Byzonder, Zandrivier, Hartebeest and Nooitgedacht. They found that an estimated 90 percent of these are high-yield boreholes that are privately-owned. However, it is not clear how many of the private boreholes are registered with the department in terms of the National Water Act. The other challenge in the region is that even though most farmers have registered their boreholes in terms of the Act, some have exceeded their water allocation that is stipulated in their respective water use licences. DWS will bring along to the blitz officials of the Enforcement and Monitoring Unit (the Blue Scorpions) who will conduct a validation and verification exercise among farmers to check for compliance. Issued by: Department of Water and Sanitation