Cuban Ambassador to Zambia Nelson Pages Vilas has apologised to the Government and has been issued with a verbal warning as well as asked to leave the country in seven days, Foreign Affairs Minister Joseph Malanji has said. This follows the alleged support Mr Vilas pledged towards the newly launched opposition Socialist Party at the weekend. Mr Malanji also assured that Zambia's longstanding ties with Cuba remained strong and would not be ruined. "My Permanent Secretary had a meeting with the Cuban Ambassador (Vilas) this morning and the Cuban envoy is remorseful and admitted he crossed the red line so we have given him, a note-verbal registering our demarche and a seven day ultimatum to leave the country has been given," he said in an interview yesterday. He said the decision to have Mr Vilas recalled, had been communicated to the Cuban government. Mr Malanji said the conduct by the envoy did not conform with diplomatic etiquette. Meanwhile the action against Mr Vilas has been received with mixed feelings. Special Assistant to the President for Press and Public Relations Amos Chanda said on Sunday that the conduct of Mr Vilas was unbecoming of a diplomat as he pledged to support the opposition Socialist Party when it was launched on Saturday. Baldwin Mwansa on Mwebantu media on Facebook said Mr Vilas should not have attended the launch as it was not part of his duties as a diplomat. Nicholas Sakala on Mwebantu media said it was only right for the Government to take action as ambassadors were sent to serve the government and should not have affiliations with opposition parties. But veteran politician Vernon Mwaanga said the decision to expel Mr Vilas was ill advised, extreme and inconsistent with what happened in the past as the Patriotic Front (PF) in 2011 while it was still opposition invited the United States Ambassador to its convention. Dr Mwaanga said the US ambassador then Mark Storella was not expelled by the MMD government despite giving remarks at the convention. National Democratic Congress Party (NDC) secretary general Mwenya Musenge said the expulsion was a blow to the cordial bilateral ties that the two countries have enjoyed over 50 years. However, Economic and Equity Party (EEP) leader Chilufya Tayali said by the fact that Mr Vilas openly pledged to support the Socialist Party, compromised his position as a diplomat. "People referring to Mr Storella's presence at the PF convention in 2011 are missing the point because the then US ambassador did not openly support a political party," Mr Tayali said. DNA leader Spuki Mulemwa also backed the Government's move, stating it was important for diplomats to adhere to their etiquette of staying away from party politics. Meanwhile governance advisor Isaac Mwanza said Zambia and Cuba should continue enjoying good relations following the expulsion of Mr Villas. Mr Mwanza said the Cuban envoy's open support of the Socialist Party was wrong. He, however, said, the process of expelling him was excessive. The Socialist Party in a statement said the move to expel Mr Villas and bar nine foreigners from attending their launch was a sign of fear, by the PF Government of the opposition party.