Being a parent especially to children who are under 5 can be a great challenge. At that age, a child may often go through various medical conditions due to the fact that their immune systems is yet to mature enough to fight against attacks. In most cases parents may find it difficult to pinpoint the underlying cause of the particular medical condition when a child is attacked by a serious issues. In most cases taking into perception that it might only be one of those temporary childhood conditions with the hope that it will come to disappear with time with some pain killers. Last Monday, a friend in the neighbourhood, came knocked at my door in the late hours of the night. I had already gone to bed by then, it is around 2:30 am. I asked him why he had come at such a time. "My little son is in a very serious condition. He has been experiencing fever for the past two weeks. We went for malaria check and his blood test was negative. We decided to take some medications from the pharmacy for a relief but they were not helpful, instead his condition has worsened. As am talking to you right now, his fever has reached worrying levels," he said. I was touched by that matter and decided to take the kid that night to the hospital where I am based at for immediate medical attention. After going through various clinical examinations, the results came out few days later with a diagnosis Non-hodgkin lymphoma, a type of cancer that starts in the certain cells of the immune system. This type of cancer can also affect bone marrow and other organs. Cancers in children are sometimes hard to recognize because common illnesses or everyday bumps and bruises can mask the early warning signs. I therefore urge parents to keep a close eye of the general symptoms of childhood cancers and get checked out. These symptoms may be continued, unexplained weight loss,headaches, often with early morning vomiting ,Increased swelling or persistent pain in the bones, joints, back, or legs, lump or mass, especially in the abdomen, neck, chest, pelvis, or armpits. It also includes development of excessive bruising, bleeding, or rash, constant, frequent, or persistent infections, a whitish color behind the pupil, nausea that persists or vomiting without nausea, constant tiredness or noticeable paleness, eye or vision changes that occur suddenly and persist, recurring or persistent fevers of unknown origin. If you are concerned about any changes, please talk with your child's doctor. Your doctor will ask how long and how often your child has been experiencing these symptom(s), in addition to other questions. This is to help figure out the cause of the problem. If cancer is diagnosed, relieving symptoms is an important part of cancer care and treatment. This may also be called symptom management, palliative care, or supportive care. Make sure you talk to your child's health care team about symptoms your child experiences.