THE One Economy Foundation says 42 Kunene teenagers below 15 years received maternal health-care between 2016 and 2017. In a report compiled after a recent visit to the region, the foundation also said another 758 girls aged between 15 and 19 received similar assistance during the same period. First Lady Monica Geingos founded the One Economy Foundation, whose #BeFree campaign compiled the report based on findings in Opuwo and Khorixas areas. The #BeFree campaign seeks to create an enabling, non-judgemental environment for adolescents, and to strengthen families, work on character transformation, youth development and capacity building. Project leader of the gender-based violence pillar of the #BeFree campaign Veronica Theron said the statistics in the report are a clear indication of the prevalence of under-aged sex. Theron, who is also the technical director in the Office of the First Lady, further said the large number of teenage pregnancies highlights the low use of contraceptives and high sexual activity without protection. When they visited these areas, Theron said, the issue of cohabitation, alcohol and drug abuse as well as jealousy were some of the issues that kept young girls out of school. "The One Economy Foundation is primarily focused on inequality, particularly in removing the structural barriers which keep our people trapped in poverty cycles and incapable of ever moving out of poverty and into asset accumulation. We believe that to address inequality in a post-conflict society effectively, we require an economic transformation framework," she stated. The report further states that meetings with experts, parents and youth from Kunene agreed to address some priority issues, including fatherlessness, and the lack of proper parenting and parental supervision. "This appears to be a national issue, as we have encountered it in all the regions we have visited so far," the report said. Theron, however, added that a specific observation is how parents, particularly at Opuwo, value cattle more than their children and families. "There were observations of moral decay and the lifestyles of parents informing the destructive habits of their children. Another norm appears to be young people in cohabitating relationships with the knowledge of their parents, and these relationships being characterised by abusive, older partners." Addressing the youth at one of the events at Opuwo, community activist Hikuru Tjazapi spoke passionately about issues relating to the inclusion of the Himba people in social-economic development issues. He also highlighted the need and importance for open and frank discussion among adults. "It also concerns us to hear about the prevalence of teacher-pupil relationships and the open manner in which they are conducted. This points to systemic failures in reporting these incidents to the relevant authorities," Theron said. Another key topic raised by the participants in the talks/debates was around sexual behaviour. "This varied from the youth engaging in risky sexual behaviour to issues of consent where coercion, force and economic benefits drive sexual activity. "The negotiating power of young girls is also deeply compromised by harmful traditional practices such as child marriages, problematic social beliefs, the abuse of drugs and alcohol, the sexual behaviour of parents which does not set a good example, and the acceptance of transactional relationships with older men," explained Theron. She added that the participants concluded that sex is a taboo topic, with many parents believing that talking about sex encourages it.