Kenya champions, Gor Mahia, put a step into qualifying for the group stages after beating South Africa's Supersport United 1-0 in the first leg of the play-off round in Machakos on Sunday. Rwandese forward Jacques Tuyisenge slotted home the lone goal from the spot in the 77th minute as Gor look to qualify for a historic berth in the group stages. "I think we were quite brilliant today and everyone put in a shift of hard work. I am glad we won 1-0 though we should have buried more chances, but we have to keep this same spirit until the return leg in Pretoria," Gor Mahia coach Dylan Kerr said after the tie. On his Supersport coach Kaitano Tembo was upbeat despite the loss and remains hopeful they can overturn the slim deficit in the return leg. "Credit to them, they deserved it today. They are a good team and they showed it. We did well but I think this is a scoreline we can overturn. We need to get a few things right but this tie is not yet over," Tembo said. Supersport skipper Dean Furman was also hopeful despite the slim loss. "We gave in a good shift today and the pitch was a bit of a challenge. But we are confident back at home because even last year when we got to the final we were really solid back in Pretoria. We have 10 days to prepare and I believe we will qualify," the Bafana Bafana midfielder said. The tie was not devoid of chances as both teams put their tails up with Supersport especially looking for the all-important away goal. It was Gor though who had the first opportunity in the fifth minute when George Odhiambo was played through by Tuyisenge, but his shot after a heavy first touch took a deflection and turned behind for a corner. The visitors' first chance of the game was a close one when centre back Morgan Gould out-jumped keeper Boniface Oluoch from a corner, but his header went over with the Gor shot stopper beaten. The visitors had another chance on the break when Thuso Phala played Gould through but his shot went across the face of goal. Five minutes to the break, Gor should have gone ahead when Francis Kahata's curling freekick went over inches. In the second half, Supersport started stronger and almost broke the deadlock when Jaimie Graig's cross from the right found Sipho Mbule unmarked at the far post, but the winger headed wide. Supersport keeper Reyaad Pieterse made two saves back to back, first diving low to his right to punch away an Odhiambo shot from inside the box while minutes later, he did well to pick out a volley from Francis Kahata. Gor kept on persisting and they finally earned for their labor when Kagere's header from a Boniface Omondi corner landed on Kekena's arms. Tuyisenge stepped forward and sent Pieterse the wrong way for the only goal. Results Friday, 6 April 2018 Bidvest (South Africa) 1-1 Enyimba (Nigeria) CF Mounana (Gabon) 1-1 El Masry (Egypt) Rayon Sports (Rwanda) 3-0 Costa do Sol (Mozambique) Saturday, 7 April 2018 Zanaco (Zambia) 0-2 Raja Club Athletic (Morocco) AS Vita (DR Congo) 1-0 CS la Mancha (Congo) Saint George (Ethiopia) 1-0 CARA (Congo) UD Songo (Mozambique) 3-1 Hilal Obeid (Sudan) Plateau United (Nigeria) 2-1 USM Alger (Algeria) Young Africans (Tanzania) 2-0 Wolaitta Dicha (Ethiopia) Generation Foot (Senegal) 3-1 RS Berkane (Morocco) Williamsville (Cote d'Ivoire) 2-0 Niefang (Equatorial Guinea) Sunday, 8 April 2018 El Hilal (Sudan) vs Akwa United (Nigeria) Gor Mahia (Kenya) 1-0 Supersport (South Africa) Aduana (Ghana) 6-1 Fosa Juniors (Madagascar) ASEC Mimosas (Cote d'Ivoire) 1-0 CR Belouizdad (Algeria) MFM (Nigeria) vs Djoliba (Mali)