I only got seriously aware of the 25th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (Chogm) in London when I saw a photo of two of the Heads of State attending the biennial meeting, soundly sleeping through the speech of HM Elizabeth II, The Queen of United Kingdom and the other Commonwealth realms. The Commonwealth is an intergovernmental organisation of 53-member states that are mostly former territories of the British Empire that was founded in 1949. Apart from Rwanda and Mozambique, the other members of the Commonwealth are countries which were ruled directly or indirectly by Britain. The bit '... which were ruled... ' sounds very romantic until you delve into the history behind those words. The history brings out the 'dirty' word, 'colonialism.' In brief, the British in the 18th and 19th centuries cunningly and often times forcefully raided several African, Asian and Caribbean countries and imposed their rule on them. They signed agreements with illiterate kings and chiefs taking over the right of self-determination of indigenous people promising commerce, Christianity and civilisation in exchange. They created countries by forcefully agglutinating independent nations and kingdoms together to form 'republics' that they could easily rule. They murdered those who stood in their way. Plundered resources and divided people who they found living in harmony to confuse them out of uniting to fight the oppression of colonialism. We are still stuck in this rut and many are still dying from this cause brought by 'civilisation.' Often times, they impertinently exiled and rusticated the traditional rulers they found in place like the great kings of Bunyoro Omukama Kabalega, Ssekabaka Mwanga II and Edward Mutesa II of Buganda. With time, an unequal relationship developed, the British sprinting to wealth and prosperity with the help of the resources they forcefully or cheaply acquired from the colonies. The international economic system designed and superintended by the British, among others, worked in a way that the colonies would produce cheap raw materials, which the colonisers would buy, process and sell back as finished goods at exorbitant prices. When all was in place, they granted the colonies 'independence.' The once proud nations and kingdoms, had been set up to operate in this system that would render them perpetually poor and weak - always begging even when they have plenty. So when the British Prime Minister Theresa May took to the lectern and dubiously spoke of the 'equal partnership' of the members of the commonwealth, then among others, African leaders clapped, you could see that we have a serious problem. There is nothing common in this relationship. Take, for instance, the right to travel. It takes a Ugandan about 90 days to be granted a visa. This is if at all they succeed after a rigorous process that requires providing financial, marital, academic and all manner of information to a third party accredited by the British government and a huge non-refundable fee as well- even in case of failure. Yet the British citizen my stroll well guaranteed to get one at the point of entry as long as they pay the fees. Yet when all is said and done, former colonies of the British Empire, still fall over each other to be members of this 'family.' Some like Mozambique and Rwanda found a foster home (like orphans) in the commonwealth. They all know the history of colonialism and that the British stand proud as conquers in this organisation. But what can they do? The Bible in Proverbs 27:7 says '... to the hungry, even what is bitter tastes sweet.' Leaders in the former colonies know the evil of colonialism and the aftermath. But they are held hostage because of the economic and military might of the former coloniser compared to theirs. They have to be members and pretend that they are enjoying everything as 'equal partners' just for their safety. It is a bad marriage where the weaker partners just go through the motions. I didn't laugh at those who slept through the Queens speech. They know how empty many of these things are, but have to endure for their own preservation. Nagenda once famously said he feels sorry for people who don't drink. In Latin, they say in vino veritas (in wine there is truth). It is such a shame I have not yet discovered this truth so I will not be drinking to the health of this generous soul with a large heart. But I will say a prayer for him - and myself too. May be at his 100th birthday, I will 'know the truth,' sit at his feet and together we shall generously indulge. Happy birthday to John Nagenda and onward in good health, may you march (taking the aches in stride) to your century, with the Lord and good fortune by your side. Nicholas Sengoba is a commentator on political and social issues.