Even though there is magnificent diversity and presence of wildlife with high endemism and expansion of protected areas, the income that the country obtains from wild life tourism and related potential is not enough due to various factors. As shown in different documents in our country there are 320 mammalian species of which 36 are endemic. There are also 862 species of birds of which 18 are endemic to Ethiopia. And from the 240 species of reptiles 15 species are endemic. And out of the 71 amphibian species 30 are endemic. Moreover, there are 41 species of endemic fish out of 150 species. Looking at the wild life protected areas of the country, there are 21 national parks, 3 wild life sanctuaries, 7 wild life reserves, three community conservation areas and 18 controlled hunting areas. Public Relation Expert of the Ethiopian Wild Life Conservation Authority Solomon Worku, said that the country earned over 6 million Birr over the past six months from protected areas and parks. In Ethiopia the establishments of protected areas are increasing. For example, some 40 years back, the country had only two protected areas namely; Awash and Simien Mountains National Parks. Currently, it has more than 55 protected areas including 21 national parks which are essential to protect and conserve the natural ecosystems and wildlife heritage of the country. Conversely, those protected areas are exposed to severe pressure, which threatens their existence and sustainability due to different factors. He said many protected areas in Ethiopia are threatened due to the ever increasing number of population, habitat loss and degradation. "Land use changes for agriculture purposes, rural and urban development activities have led to the decline and shift of wild life areas, resulting in the extinction of wildlife species and natural areas which serve as their home." Solomon further mentioned that the causes of the threats of protected areas as over population, deforestation, degradation of forest and poaching as other major causes of losing of biodiversity and wild life which directly impose wild life tourism and biodiversity conservation. As to him, fight over natural resources between the communities living adjacent to protected areas and tourism development have increased in recent years and this resulted in decreased protected areas and loss of many animal species. Varieties of large animals in Ethiopia are many and their distributions are dependent upon these protected areas. Currently, these areas are highly threatened by man-made effects, he further noted that the ever changing population growth is causing for more space and resource demand that affects wild animal's home on these areas. According to Solomon, land degradation is globally a threat to many wild animals as their natural habitat is damaged due to it. The forest coverage of Ethiopia has been reducing at an alarming rate mainly due to it. "The extensive deforestation would lead to the extinction of biodiversity. However, much of the forest land is now widely used for cultivation, grazing, fuel, wood and construction." The human population around most protected areas over the years has been changing in terms of its size, density and livelihood strategies. Uncontrolled logging, illegal charcoal production and fuel wood collection are some of the major causes of deforestation that directly influence large mammal's habitat, where tourism is dependent. Moreover, such activities threat the protected area which also affects tourism and life style of wild animals and in turn decrease the revenue that the nation could generate from the area. He further explained that killing and illegal wildlife trade activities in and around the parks, as well as uncontrolled use of natural resources have been the major problems various parks have faced and led to the extinction of some animal's species.