Dodoma — The parliamentary Committee for Industry, Trade and Environment yesterday expressed its dissatisfaction over the budget proposed for environmental conservation. Presenting the committee's opinion on the budget estimates for the Vice President's Office (Union and Environment), the chairman, Mr Suleiman Ahmed Sadiq, said environmental conservation needed a much larger sum than the proposed estimates for the 2018/19 financial year. Mr Sadiq said in the coming year, the docket, which is under the Vice President's Office, had requested Sh8 billion, some Sh1 billion less than the current budget for environment. The committee also said the ministry's Sh3.5 billion proposed budget for development projects is 39.1 per cent lower than the current budget of Sh5.7 billion. "With this analysis, it can be concluded that the budget estimates have been reduced and it could prove difficult for the department to implement its plans," Mr Sadiq said. However, the Committee of Legal and Constitutional Affairs said that the budget of the Vice President's Office (Union and Environment) has increased by 103 per cent by February 2018, up from Sh5 billion because of the costs incurred by the ministry in relocating to Dodoma. The Minister of State in the Vice President's Office (Union Affairs and Environment), Mr January Makamba, tabled his Sh21.93 billion budget proposals for the 2018/19 financial year, seeking the support of MPs to endorse the plan aimed at boosting development, curbing climate change and strengthening the union between Zanzibar and the Mainland. Speaking in Parliament, Mr Makamba said the proposed budget for the docket is Sh14.778 billion, which includes Sh9.721 billion as recurrent budget and Sh5.063 billion for development projects. On Union matters, Mr Makamba said development opportunities from the Union between Mainland and Zanzibar would be exploited through the strong cooperation between the two sides. "I would like to caution MPs on the language that we use as we debate matters pertaining to the Union. We should use a language that builds rather than damages it," he said. Debating the budget, Kigoma Member of Parliament Zitto Kabwe (ACT) asked the ministry to submit before Parliament, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report of the 2,100MW power project which was carried out by the ministry. Special Seats Jasmine Tisekwa (CCM) urged the ministry to focus on curbing the use of plastic materials. "The use of plastics in the reason why some drainage systems are blocked in cities," she said.