Kenya's journey to the final tournament got off to a positive start thanks to a 1-0 win over Uganda in Machakos on Wednesday. Right back Lillian Adera scored eight minutes in the second half with an audacious strike from range to give Kenya's Starlets the advantage ahead of Sunday's return leg in Kampala. Kenya coach David Ouma was upbeat with the win, despite the fact that Uganda produced a resilient fight. "I said from the start that Uganda is an improved team and they showed that today. The most important thing for us is that we got the win. We lacked in some areas especially attack and that is one thing we will work on heading into the Sunday game," Ouma said. His captain Wendy Achieng bore the same sentiments, adding they will be a better side when they face the Ugandans again in the return tie. "It is important that we won, despite the fact we scored only one goal. We will go back and work on the few areas of weakness and I have faith that we will make a good show in the return leg," the captain noted. On her part, Uganda coach Faridah Bulega was happy with the performance despite losing and has warned Kenya to expect a tough tie on Sunday in Kampala. "Before, we were used to Kenya scoring four or five goals against us but today we came here and we conceded only one. This is a new generation of players and I am very happy with how they played today. In the return leg, I am optimistic we will overturn the result," the tactician said. Not much of action was seen in the opening half with Uganda coming closest with the Kenyan backline clearing a few centimetres off the line after Asia Nakibuka's strike from the right found the backline off their feet. Prior to that, Uganda skipper Hassuna Nassifa had come close with a shot from range which went over. Kenya also had two chances from range through Esse Akida and Mwanahalima Adam whose strikes both went over. In the second half, Ouma started off with changes, bringing on Corazon Aquino for Christine Shilwatso for some fresh legs in attack. Starlets broke the deadlock eight minutes into the second half with Adera's audacious strike from range, having noticed the Ugandan keeper off her line. Mwanahalima should have doubled the tally five minutes later when she drove into the box after some crisp control, but the keeper saved the effort. Aquino picked up the rebound but her shot from inside the box went wide. The home side continued pushing and in the 73rd minute Dorcas Shikobe came close with a header off an Adam cross, but the keeper saved at her near post. Elsewhere, Ethiopia cut Libya to size with an emphatic 8-0 win in Cairo. The Ethiopians led by six goals at the break in the encounter in the Egyptian capital due to the political instability in Libya. Captain Erehima Zerega netted a hat-trick, fans favourite Loza Abera netted a brace and one each from Mirkat Ayele, Bizuayehu Aymeku and Betelhem Shemea completed the rout. Results Wednesday, 4 April 2018 Senegal 2-1 Algeria Libya 0-8 Ethiopia Congo 2-0 Central African Republic Kenya 1-0 Uganda Tanzania 3-3 Zambia Thursday, 5 April 2018 Namibia vs Zimbabwe Friday, 6 April 2018 Morocco vs Cote d'Ivoire Lesotho vs Swaziland Saturday, 7 April 2018 Burkina Faso vs Gambia