The IGD U.S. roadshow tour, “Africa Investment Rising: Building Momentum for Investing in Africa’s Economic Prosperity”, will kick off on April 18-May 1,  to showcase the tremendous trade and investment potential in Africa and to build stronger U.S. and African business connections in key growth sectors. The U.S. roadshow is a multi-city series of site visits, engaging panel discussions, and speed networking and company matchmaking among investors and business leaders to spur greater U.S. investment in Africa. The Des Moines roadshow stop will draw attention to the enormous potential offered in the agriculture sector by progressing from large-scale commodity production to agricultural industrialization to advance Africa’s growth and global competitiveness. African and U.S. private sector leaders and policymakers will discuss investment opportunities to accelerate the development of the African agro-processing industry for value addition in agriculture. An evening reception will be held for all roadshow attendees at the World Food Prize's Hall of Laureates in Des Moines. A delegation of African private sector leaders and high-level government officials will  participate in a site visit at Corteva Agriscience™, Agriculture Division of DowDuPont™, plant in Johnston, IA. WHEN / WHERE: April 25, 2018 World Food Prize Hall of Laureates  100 Locust St, Des Moines, IA April 26, 2018 Iowa State University Research Park, Ames, IA 2321 N Loop Dr., Ames, IA WHAT:  Sessions that are open for media coverage. Wednesday, April 25, 2018 6:00PM Evening Networking Reception All participants World Food Prize Hall of Laureates, 100 Locust St, Des Moines, IA Thursday, April 26, 2018 FORUM: AGRICULTURE & AGRO-INDUSTRY Iowa State University Research Park 2321 N Loop Dr., Ames, IA 8:00AM            Registration and Continental Breakfast 8:00AM            Tour of Iowa State University Research Park (Ames, IA) 10:00AM          Welcome and Overview of Africa Investment Rising campaign and U.S. Roadshow Dr. Mima S. Nedelcovych, President & CEO | Initiative for Global Development 10:15AM          Local Partners Welcome: Wendy Wintersteen, President  | Iowa State University 10:30AM        Investor Roundtable: Transforming Agriculture Sector to Boost Africa’s Global Competitiveness Moderator: Carol Pineau, award-winning journalist and documentary producer Panelists: 11:45AM          Q & A 12:00PM          Lunch 1:00PM            Executive speed networking & company match 3:00PM             Wrap up FORUM AGENDA The Initiative for Global Development (IGD) is a Washington, DC-based network of African and global business leaders who are committed to advancing sustainable development and inclusive growth in Africa through business investment. IGD brings together CEOs and senior executives from leading African and global companies through our Frontier Leader Network to catalyze greater business investment and impact on the African continent. MORE INFO: For more information and to access the full program, click here and press release here. Media registration is required to cover IGD’s AIR Campaign U.S. Roadshow Tour. SOCIAL: Follow us on Twitter @IGDLeaders and Facebook at facebook.com/IGDLeaders.  The event hashtag is #AIRCampaign. You can also access the social media toolkit here. MEDIA CONTACT: Shanta Bryant Gyan, Initiative for Global Development * email, sbryant@igdleaders.org  * phone: 202-412-4603