Quality and equitable healthcare should be a basic human right, but it has been commodified and is now a luxury which only a few have access to in most parts of the world, said Cancer Association of Namibia (CAN) chief executive Rolf Hansen on Saturday. In a statement read on his behalf on world health day in Windhoek on Saturday, Hansen called for quality healthcare to become a priority. "In Namibia, we can proudly say that as a multi-organisational community, we all contribute to making healthcare accessible for our people," he said. The theme of this year's world health day is 'Universal health coverage: everyone, everywhere'. Hansen also addressed how cancer affects Namibians. He said on average, 10 Namibians are diagnosed with cancer daily. Skin cancer remains the most prevalent cancer in the country. At least 830 Namibians were diagnosed with skin cancer, and about 840 people with either breast cancer or cervical cancer every year. Alarmingly, immune-deficient forms of cancer, such as Kaposi's sarcoma, lymphoma and retinoblastomas, are on the rise in the country. "With more than 3 700 Namibians diagnosed with cancer annually, it is crucial that we take hands and break the stigma attached to cancer, and build bridges to connect healthcare and support services," he noted. Hansen said it was imperative to aggressively aim for universal healthcare and access to quality health services. Echoing those sentiments was Khomas governor Laura McLeod-Katjirua, who said all Namibians must have access to healthcare. "No one should have to choose between death and financial hardship. No one should have to choose between buying medicine and buying food. No one should have to choose between good health and other life necessities," she stressed. McLeod-Katjirua also thanked various stakeholders for their efforts in combating disease outbreaks, such as hepatitis E. World health day is celebrated globally every year on 7 April. Saturday's event was attended by acting health permanent secretary Petronella Masabane, United Nations resident coordinator Kiki Gbeho, CAN's Ingrid Muhenje, Samora Machel constituency councillor Fanuel Shivute and over 300 community members. - Nampa