Controversy is widely known to be a trade in stock of most celebrities across the world. And Nigeria's sensational singer, Davido, is no exception. In the last few years,the "Aye" crooner has been enmeshed in one controversy or the other that almost ruined his career. Recall what happened in 2016, when Davido and his baby mama, Sophia got into a nasty public fight over the custody of their daughter. Davido had claimed that Sophia was into drugs at the same time breastfeeding their baby, a situation which he didn't take slightly. The drama took a different twist when Sophia got her uncle and media mogul, Dele Momodu involved. Davido wasn't going to lay low just because of the status of Mr. Momodu as he called him out, he even went as far as making a reference to him in two of his featured songs. It's also fresh in the minds of the lovers of the pop star, when he was embroiled in another controversy last year after he lost three of his friends, Tagbo Umieke, Olugbemiga 'DJ Olu' Abiodun and Chime Amaechi all within one week. Earlier this year, the pop star also got involved in another controversy at the Murtala Mohummed International Airport, Ikeja, leaving many to wonder whether his name is associated with controversy. He had arrived from a foreign trip and security personnel at the airport were trying to verify whether the tags on Davido's luggage corresponded with the reclaimed luggage. The inquiry of the personnel did not go down well with one of Davido's aides who refused to tender the tags and resorted to abusive words against the staff, resulting in exchange of blows and assaults. The situation was said to have degenerated and the security personnel called for reinforcement. The aide was overpowered and was then taken to 'Tango City' a secluded place at the airport where unruly passengers and touts are kept by security agencies. It was at this point that the attention of Davido who was already outside the terminal awaiting the collection of his luggage from his aide was called to the terminal incident. Indeed, hardly has the dust settled than Davido got into another controversy last weekend, after South African actress, Boity, who reportedly accused the pop star of making sexual advances at her after his concert in Zimbabwe .According to Zimbabwe newspaper, H-Metro, Davido and South African celebrity presenter Boity had a nasty confrontation at a local hotel after Davidio's 30 Billion Concert held at the Harare International Conference Centre ( HICC). The fight happened in the early hours of Sunday morning and eyewitnesses said it was such a bad clash that left some of the Meikles hotel furniture vandalised. Police had to be called in to calm the situation down. The newspaper said, what really caused the fight was not immediately ascertained as it learnt via a grapevine version that Davido told Boity in an unconventional way that he wanted to get her in bed, something that did not go well with Boity. It is then said Boity started throwing tantrums, shouting at Davido. A popular and controversial Zimbabwean socialite, Genius "Ginimbi" Kadungure who brought Davido to Zimbabwe for his show, then allegedly tried to intervene and calm the situation down but Boity reportedly slapped him. It was also reported that Davido was also manhandled by Boity during the fracas which made one of Davido's aides mad as he threatened Boity never to visit Nigeria. Could it be that the pop star has a bond with controversy?