Thibault Relecom, the chief executive of the Brussels-based UNIBRA SA, the parent company of Skol Rwanda, on Saturday graced the official launch of a Rwf185m ($250,000) project to uplift vulnerable families in Nyarugenge District. Under the banner of Skol Cares in partnership with FXB Rwanda, a local organisation, the project that is set to run until September 2020, targets over 400 beneficiaries, including 146 children from vulnerable households. The children are given scholastic materials while each household receives a monthly stipend for food as well as basic needs, including housing, sanitation and health products. Apart from material and financial support to sustain livelihoods, families will get small start-up capital of up to Rwf150,000 each to start small businesses. Speaking at the event, Relecom said that the government policies support from partners made it easy for them to invest in Rwanda. Beyond investment, he said they have an obligation to play their role in the development of the country, through supporting poverty reduction initiatives. "Rwanda gave me an opportunity to start a company here but I want to share this opportunity with the people of Rwanda. I commend the Government of Rwanda for efforts and initiatives aimed at empowering vulnerable families, especially women and children," he said. Emiliana Nyirangendo, 53, is a resident of Rugarama Sector, Nyarugenge District. She heads a household of 10, including seven grandchildren and two daughters. In March this year, she joined the programme. While receiving a delegation led by Relecom on Saturday, she said she would efficiently use the support she to uplift her family's welfare. Currently through the programme, all the children are given scholastic materials and community health insurance. "With the startup I will invest in a small bakery and I believe my business will succeed so that by the end of the programme, I will be able to fully provide for my family," she said. Emmanuel Habyarimana, the Executive Director of FXB Rwanda, a local organisation, said the project aims at ensuring all children thrive in a healthy environment enabling them to have access to quality education and health care with family as the basic foundation.