The government must give due attention to better involve stakeholders in forestry to substitute the huge sum of wood products import, expert in the field stressed. Ethiopia imports wood products from countries like China and the United Arab Emirates which amounts to 200 million USD annually, Dr. Mulugeta Lemenih, an expert in forestry told The Ethiopian Herald. He said that participatory forest management in Ethiopia is works strongly with stakeholders that are found at environs of forest places by identifying the people who have right on using, developing and treating forest and then by having forest management agreement with government after that they will outline plan and could work in cooperation. He further noted that Ethiopia has not benefited adequately from forest sector, and indicated that to alleviate the problem the government has to involve investors and farmer in policy making and avail finance access and technical supports. He elaborated that the government should also prepare adequate resource, human power as the forest sector takes too much time to engage investors in to the sector. Hence the government should expand forest industries to ensure smooth transfer. To deliberate on harnessing the nations forestry resources Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has launched a two-day panel discussion yesterday with stakeholders. Participants of the panel discussed the opportunities of the emerging community forest resource management and area closures to realize climate resilient green development path. During a panel discussion issues like agro forestry and natural resource management, area closure and further climate change and forest product utilization. Dr. Yigardu Mulatu Director of Tree and Seed Technology Coordination Unit with the Ethiopian Environment and Forest Research Institute said that on this 5th conference of the Ethiopian Forestry Society selected research papers would be presented so as to identify problems on the forest sector and to set sustainable remedy.