In this age, desertification has been rapidly expanding across the world at an alarming rate. Scholars who make researches in the area figure out the factors behind the rapid rate of desertification. One of the major factors is rapid population growth. When population increases, people are forced to cultivate new areas for agriculture. Such activities have their own impact in disturbing the balanced ecosystem. The distraction of flora and fauna for the purpose of gaining additional farm land resulted in rapid loss of forests. By the same token, it could be a factor for soil degradation and loss of wildlife. What is more, culture of animal husbandry within pastoral communities is also a great contributor for this tragedy. Overexploitation of grazing land exposed the land for erosion, and hence influencing the ecosystem. In short, there is imbalance between the number of livestock and the capacity of land. In the third world, the progressive destruction of the stock of trees for the sake of firewood and timber is accelerating soil erosion and reducing its capacity to feed and employ people. Environmental degradation and desertification are posing challenges on the livelihood of human beings. Some third world countries that recognized the seriousness of desertification have been investing a lot of resources to afforest their land. Ethiopia is one among such countries that have been striving to conserve the existing forest potential. For this to happen, the nation has established Secretariat for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. National REDD+ Secretariat Coordinator, Dr. Yitebitu Moges said that of the nine Ethiopian states, Gambela, Oromia, and Benshangul have good forest coverage. Thus, the Secretariat has been working on the conservation of the existing forest coverage of the regions through allocating budget. He went on saying that the landscape in Amhara, Tigray, Afar, Somalia and some parts of Oromia are highly exposed to desertification. Hence, afforestation and reforestation efforts need to be exerted, particularly around mountainous areas. The Secretariat has been striving to protect the existing forest, by mainly focusing on raising the awareness and improving capacity local communities. To increase the forest coverage in Amhara, Tigray and east Oromia, efforts has been carried out to plant trees through mobilizing the community. Dr. Yitebitu also told The Ethiopian Herald that over the past two decades, various efforts have been exerted to develop the forest coverage across the board. But the expected result has not yet been attained due to poor institutional capacity as well as socioeconomic and other related factors. He suggested that the tree plantation efforts have not been fully successful as there has been gap in caring for seedlings. Furthermore, no research has been conducted to identify the appropriate seedlings conducive for the environment. Simply, farmers are planting trees through various campaigns which have not taken into consideration what would happen then after. And this has its own direct impact on the forest coverage, he stated. To further expand forest coverage nationwide, the government has identified specific areas to planting trees. What is more, it provides legal support and seeding assistance for various stakeholders who have a tendency to develop their own environs. Nowadays, the federal government has been working jointly with various media outlets to raise awareness of the public towards afforestation. Recognizing that the job done so far is not enough, it has been working hard than ever before. Environment education has been given in primary and secondary schools. Of the 44 Universities that are operating in the country, Wondogenet Forest College has been specialized in graduating students in forestry. Furthermore, institutional capacity need to be strengthened, seeds that are suitable to the topography should be identified through conducting researches. So far, very few areas are covered with forests through the support of experts. With regard to forest coverage, "we have to learn from best practices of countries such as South Korea, China, and Austria. They have a developed culture of collective forest plantation," said Secretariat Coordinator. He further said that the general public should be responsible to safeguard the forest and plants on a regular basis. Stressing the geographical advantages of Ethiopia and its abundant potential, Dr. Yitebitu indicated that proper preservation and protection of the environment would enable it to export water not only to Arab countries, but also neighboring countries such as Sudan, Somalia and others. If the country is effective in forest coverage, the land will receive balanced rainfall and farmers can receive adequate water to improve national agricultural productivity. Dr. Yitebitu also said that, in doing so, Ethiopia can boost its economy just by selling water, let alone the other multifaceted benefits that forest would bring about. Focusing on forestry development would also support Ethiopia's green development ambitions. The current coverage of forest is 17.2 million hectares of land. It covers 15.5 percent of the total surface area. While protecting the existing forest coverage, Ethiopia intends to undertake large scale afforestation and reforestation to enhance the total forest coverage from 20 to 30 percent by 2020 and 2030. REDD+ has largely been implemented in this regard, he added. The government of Ethiopia considers REDD+ to be a flagship program within the national development plan and it is expected to make significant contribution in terms of investment in forest management, forest conservation and forest restoration. The national REDD+ strategy, therefore, aims to ensure the sustainable management of the forest and to improve the livelihoods, biodiversity conservation and the hydro-logical functions of Ethiopia's highlands, according to him. He supposed that, REDD+ will achieve these goals through establishing an effective legal and institutional framework; enhancing investments in forest conservation and restoration programs/ projects and interventions; and improving institutional capacity and ensuring sustainable finance. The strategy promotes the protection, conservation and restoration of forest ecosystems; strengthens governance; develops local capacities and creates an enabling environment for sustainable forest development. It has a bigger vision of harnessing forestry resource development for driving green and sustainable economic growth founded on the management of forest and water resources of natural capitals. According to Dr. Yitebitu, the area affected by deforestation should be afforested to keep environmental safety and integrity. Some 660,000 hectares of land in Southern Nation Nationalities and Oromia states will be managed through participatory forest management program in the next three and four years. The plan also includes reforestation of 800 thousand hectares of land in Amhara and Tigray states through mobilizing local communities.