Zzina awards held on Thursday last week at Freedom City's Sky beach left many people surprised with the biggest winner of the night. Granted, controversy is expected at any awards event; yet still... This year's edition, the fifth, organized by Galaxy FM, served up its surprise in the Artiste Of The Year category. The winner for the Breakthrough Artiste category, Fik Fameica, also walked away with the artiste of the year gong. How possible it is for one to be the notable breakthrough artiste but also the best artiste of the year, left many patrons puzzled. In this category, the Kutama rapper beat Ykee Benda (Best Male Artiste), Sheebah Karungi (Best Female Artiste) and B2C (winners for Song of the Year, Best Collaboration and Best Afro Beat Song), among others. Receiving the accolade, Fik, whose birth name is Shafik Walukagga, took time to appreciate his fans for putting him on top and went on to brag about how he was running things in the industry at the moment. While it is good manners to congratulate the 'Fresh Bwoy', it needs to go on record that the B2C trio or perhaps Sheebah and Ykee Benda lost the award to the biggest surprise of the night. Jose Chameleone was honored for his contribution to the industry with Legendary Award presented to him by Galaxy FM CEO Dr Innocent Nahabwe. The night's biggest performance was Steve Keys' tribute to Mowzey Radio. The awards were also full of emotional rewards that saw Radio, who died from head injuries suffered during a bar brawl earlier this year, recognized several times. On top of the Goodlyfe's collabo with B2C (Gutamiiza) that took two accolades, Radio was also voted best songwriter, best contemporary/RnB artiste, best fans team (for RAW) and surprisingly, for best inspirational song (Tambula Nange) - a song that only came to light hours after his death. His singing partner Weasel (Douglas Seguya) was in London at the time of the awards and could not represent the Goodlyfe Crew as fans knew it. Producer Danz Kumapesa was also awarded posthumously as the best in his craft last year.