The growth in the digital economies of many African countries supports an increased demand for world-class hosting solutions on the continent of Africa. Established in 2002, Web4Africa is a leading pan-African web hosting firm with data centre presence across Accra in Ghana, Lagos in Nigeria and Johannesburg in South Africa. The company offers a diverse range of server hosting solutions that meet every demand and budget. Virtual Server HostingWeb4Africa offers Virtual Private Servers powered by robust hardware and driven by two leading virtualization technologies. The Virtual Private Server (VPS) solutions are broadly divided into 3 main categories: Managed, Basic and Advanced. The Managed VPS option comes with cPanel and is intended for high-traffic website owners who have no sys-admin skills nor the time to manage a web hosting server. The Basic VPS option is powered by OpenVZ virtualization technology and is intended for users with sysadmin skills who need a virtual server on a budget while the Advanced VPS option is powered by KVM technology and supports Windows OS in addition to offering a higher level of security and stability. Targeted at varying market segments, Web4Africa offers Virtual Server solutions that meet the most stringent demand and budget. In all the categories, the Virtual Servers on offer are scalable, infinitely-configurable and do not suffer from "bad-neighbourhood" effect. More details are available at https://web4africa.com/vps-hosting/ Dedicated ServersPowered by world-class hardware, Web4Africa offers affordable and reliable dedicated servers in Ghana, Nigeria and South Africa.While ready-made servers are available, custom solutions with that meet a wide range of dedicated server specifications are available on demand. Customized networking options and solutions can also be tailored to meet enterprise needs. Dedicated Servers from Web4Africa offer cost-savings, considering an enterprise would not have to procure expensive server hardware upfront, nor spend on installation and high maintenance costs of a server room. More details are available at https://web4africa.com/dedicated-servers/ Data centresWeb4Africa is the only web hosting company in Africa that offers the choice of hosting solutions in across Ghana, Nigeria and South Africa. In addition to the benefits offered by local hosting solutions to the residents of the respective countries and regions, the solutions are backed by world-class data centres with guaranteed 100% power uptime, physical security, best-in-class IT environments, among other features. Web4Africa also maintains its dual-stack autonomous IP network and peers extensively on the Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria (IXPN), Johannesburg Internet Exchange (JINX), NAP Africa Johannesburg and gains direct access to Ghana Internet Exchange (GIXA) through a leading IP transit provider in that country.