Despite a 1-1 draw from the first leg, Kenya coach Stanley Okumbi believes his side stand a chance of progressing to the second round of the qualifiers. Kenya left for Kigali on Thursday afternoon for the Saturday tie to be played at the Stade Nyamirambo, and Okumbi says the three weeks of preparations has been enough to work on the team's weak points. "We have really worked especially on the finishing which was a disappointment in the first leg. We have also played friendly matches against Premier League teams which has given us the competitive edge we need. Looking at the team, I am quite optimistic we are in a good shape to win," Okumbi said. "It is a very possible mission and I believe we have a genuine chance of progressing". Okumbi's men will need at least a high scoring draw or an outright win to progress to the second round of qualification as they eye the elusive spot in next year's finals. "I felt that in the first leg we didn't play to our abilities. If we improve that performance by even 20 per cent, then we stand a good chance. Rwanda is a good team but I believe on a good day, we can beat them," the tactician further stated. Skipper Alpha Onyango has also affirmed that the team is charged to get a positive result over in the 'land of a thousand hills' and has called on his teammates to put in a shift and ensure they get to the second round. "It was unfortunate we conceded a late away goal, but we can still work our way to correct the wrongs. Everyone is determined and we will work hard to get a win. That is what we are targeting," the Gor Mahia youngster said. Meanwhile, Okumbi has strengthened his striking force with three new players who missed the first leg. John Mwangi, Ovellah Ochieng and Patrick Otieno from Kenyan Premier League sides Mathare United, Kariobangi Sharks and Nzoia Sugar are bring the attacking bite the team was missing in the previous game. "The three have the experience of playing in the league and it was unfortunate they missed the first leg. Their presence will give us some lease of life upfront and I am hopeful they will bring in their best," the Kenya trainer added. The winner of this tie qualifies for the second round of qualification and books a date against holders Zambia in May. Seven teams from the qualifiers will join host Niger for the final tournament scheduled for 2-17 February 2019. Fixtures Saturday, 21 April 2018 Morocco vs Mauritania (0-2) Sierra Leone vs Guinea Bissau ((0-1) Tunisia vs Algeria (1-3) Rwanda vs Kenya (1-1) Burundi vs Ethiopia (2-0) South Sudan vs Uganda (1-5) Mozambique vs Seychelles (0-0) Sunday, 22 April 2018 Togo vs Gabon (0-4) DR Congo vs Tanzania (0-0) Swaziland vs Malawi (0-0) Namibia vs Botswana (0-0)