Bina Babie real names Robina Mbabazi Mulera is a radio presenter on Dembe FM. She has presented the mid-morning show, 'Mubeezi' for the last 16 years and she says looks forward to continue doing it. She says it all about her attachment to her fans and listeners. In 2016, she was awarded in the RTV awards as the 'Face of Radio'. This is one of her most outstanding achievements in her media journey. "I chose to do things differently; for instance to share in the trials and tribulations of my listeners by counseling them and offering solutions where I can," she says. "That explains why I want to be remembered as a person who invested her life in being a voice for the voiceless". She has fond memories in her journey. One that stands out is her encounter, three years back, with one of her listeners - a former prostitute who was depressed that nobody loved her. "I had actually given up on helping her until she mentioned that if I don't meet her, she would commit suicide," Bina Babie says. From her story Bina Babie got to know that some women are prostitutes not out of choice but due to pressure of circumstances. She eventually quit prostitution and Bina Babie and her listeners raised money to enable her study bakery and cookery and start a business. The other touching story was of a hermaphrodite whom Bina Babie and the listeners raised money for a surgery that set him on the path to a stable relationship. She also started 'Maama Wange' health camp that runs every month of May to help expectant mothers seek antenatal services from experts in one place. The idea is drawn from her own experience. "With my own trials and tribulations including my struggles to conceive, I decided to give back to expectant mothers," said Bina Babie. Before joining Dembe FM, she had worked with Uganda Broadcasting Corporation formerly UTV and Radio Uganda as a teens show presenter and excitedly recalls being trained trained and nurtured by one of Uganda's greatest presenters, Baale Francis (RIP). After four years, she joined Dembe FM. Interestingly, the popular radio presenter had wanted to become a medical doctor and was only failed by the fear of the sight of dead bodies. She even joined medical school and kept in there for just a month until she could not take it any longer. She eventually dropped the programme and took on a course in accounting at Nkumba University. She has never practiced. Bina Babie is the first born in a family of five children. She went to Lugogo Nursery School, Kitante Primary School and Trinity College Nabbingo. She completed high school at St. Josephs Naggalama. Any three things we don't know about you? I am a very reserved person and yet people think that I am very outgoing. I only do it for the job otherwise if it wasn't for it, my real character boils down to being reserved. I don't take alcoholic drinks even when some people think that I do. Others say that it's a character trait of most media personalities. I haven't dated in four years and its one of the things people find it difficult to believe but I chose that path because of what I went through trying to conceive. Bina Babie is a God fearing person. What is your idea of perfect happiness? Putting a smile on someone's face because I believe that I am blessed and in a way, I do it to thank God. Even when I have had a long day, playing with kids just brings about happiness. What is your greatest fear? The thought of trying to conceive and fail again is my greatest fear. What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? When I started working on radio, I became talkative - so if go silent, others consider it being arrogant. What is the trait you most deplore in others? Being negative; there are people who are always negative and never see any positivity in life. Which living person do you most admire? My mother, Kate Mulera Atenyi Baryahaba, is not only the most beautiful woman that I have ever seen but also very hardworking and inspirational. What is your greatest extravagance? I love perfumes and handbags. It's crazy but I just love smelling good. What is your current state of mind? I am happy. What do you consider the most overrated virtue? We have all focused on investing in one part of the chain in agriculture and that is growing food. Most people don't think beyond what will happen to other sections of the chain like marketing, value addition and post-harvest handling yet we need to balance if we are to maximize the benefits. What does being powerful mean to you? In Uganda, power comes with wealth. However, I would relate power to knowledge and intelligence. On what occasion do you lie? I strive to stay away from lies because I also like to deal with honest people. What do you most dislike about your appearance? Incidentally, when you grow and happen to discover things, you acknowledge that we are all created in the image of God. Which living person do you most despise? My character doesn't allow me to despise people because I believe that all human beings are not righteous just as we all have strengths and weaknesses. What is the quality you most like in a woman? Hardworking and caring. What is the quality you most like in a man? God fearing, hardworking, knowledgeable, intelligent, understanding and an adviser. What or who is the greatest love of your life? I love my mother because she is endowed with all the character of a good woman. When and where were you happiest? My happiest moments are work related. When I was appreciated and awarded as the 'face of radio' in 2016 at the RTV awards. I was also happy after my first operation for fibroids. I thought I would not make it back but God gave me another opportunity. It was also a happy moment when we successfully had an operation for one of my listeners who is a hermaphrodite. Where would you most like to live? Uganda is where my network lies and as long as there is peace, I can negotiate for the rest. What is your most treasured possession? Radio is all about the voice and it is the same thing that qualified me as the face of radio so I treasure my voice for the sake of my career. What do you regard as the lowest depth of misery? I have nursed and lost about three close people and eventually lost them to HIV/AIDS. It's the very reason, I keep telling people to test for HIV however hard it may be. What is your favorite occupation? At this age, the comfortable job I would do is Public Relations because therein lies my strength. What do you most value in your friends? Trust, hardworking and being positive about life. Who are your favourite writers? I am fascinated more by inspirational writings for instance 'Beauty begins' by Chris Shook and Megan Shook. The book is a reminder that God can intervene at any point and provide a way forward. Who is your hero of fiction? I love to face the real world. Which historical figure do you most identify with? Baale Francis had the zeal for his job. He was so passionate about his job to the extent that he would edit his stories even when there were editors assigned to do the job. He also worked so selflessly aiming to succeed at whatever he chose to do. He was never self-centered like many people. How would you like to die? I would prefer a painless death; for instance in my sleep with a smile. What is your motto? Just be grateful, do good, serve others, think good about others and you will be blessed.