Gaborone — Ambassador of China to Botswana, Dr Zhao Yanbo says China will continue to avail medical assistance to Botswana by sending medical teams in the country to assist in treating various diseases and ailments. Speaking during a reception to welcome the 15th Chinese medical team to Botswana at the Chinese Embassy on April 5, Dr Zhao said the new medical team had brought with them not only the high-level medical treatment technology and expertise, but also trained a large number of local medical staff through clinical teaching and academic lectures. The envoy noted with delight that the Chinese medical team had become a good example of the long standing friendship and tangible cooperation between the two countries. Above all, he said the fruitful contribution in medical service was significant and had helped to better achieve the goal of poverty eradication as it was also a contributory factor in reducing poverty. The 15th medical team consists of 46 members coming from all the best hospitals in Fujian Province of Chine, 24 of whom are assigned to work in Princess Marina Referral Hospital in Gaborone while 22 are assigned to work in Nyangabwe Referral Hospital in Francistown. They will spend two years in Botswana and work together with local doctors and nurses to fulfil their mission. Besides Botswana, Chinese medical teams are also found in almost 50 African countries, proving that China and Africa enjoyed deeply-founded friendship for decades. The ambassador noted that over the past five decades, China had sent over 20 000 doctors to 51 African countries, where they have treated and cured millions of patients and trained thousands of nurse and doctors. At the moment Chinese medical teams are still working in 43 Africa countries. On other issues, Ambassador Zhao said Chine and Botswana were now facing a historical opportunity to further their relations of friendship and cooperation, at the upcoming FOCAC Summit to be held in Beijing in September. He said he was happy that Chinese President, Xi Jinping had extended invitation to President Mokgweetsi Masisi to attend the Summit, which invite the latter has accepted, noting that the two would continue to grow and nurture the good friendship which already exists between them. Meanwhile, Minister of Health and Wellness, Dr Alfred Madigele noted with satisfaction that over the years the number of medical teams had increased in line with the ever increasing demand for health services as well as the need to provide specialised services. Dr Madigele said the increase in the number of health workers symbolised the true spirit of friendship, partnership and brotherhood by China. He said this support was highly commendable and would always be in the hearts of Batswana, given the acute shortage of medical specialist services. "This goes to demonstrate that there are regular follow-ups by the respective health teams of our countries. It is, therefore, fitting that we should commend our senior officials for closely following up on the commitments we make. Last year our team travelled to The People's Republic of China for a recruitment drive, of which we are elated that the medical team is here tonight with us," he said. Leader of the 15th Chinese medical team, Dr Chen Lieping said the new arrival was a highly skilled team specialising in various areas of health and was expected to deliver best medical care in the two Botswana major hospitals. Dr Chen noted with pride that the team, whose age averages 37, would help in curing many ailments. The team consists of 40 medical personnel under various specialities namely; anaesthetists, urologists, obstetricians and gynaecologists, ear, nose and throat surgeons, radiologists, acupuncturists, oncologists, orthopaedic surgeons, paediatricians, ophthalmologists, Intensive Care Nurses, theatre nurses, neonatal nurses, among others. Source : BOPA