Bon Hotels, the South African hotel management company, doubled its brand in Ethiopia after partnering with Bahiru Abraham to open an 82-room hotel on African Avenue. The hotel management company and the local property developer have signed a 15 years management deal to operate the hotel which is expected to be operational in six months period. Ozzie Business & Hospitality Management Group, founded by Kumeneger Teketel, facilitated the deal, negotiating on behalf of the local property developer Bahiru, who also owns Bitweded Bahiru Abraham Tower located on African Avenue adjacent to the hotel that is under construction. The property located right next to Dembel City Center, in Kirkos District, had its construction finalised with the owners now working to install technical, security and IT systems. The 12-storey building laying on over a 1,000sqm plot of land has consumed close to a quarter of a billion Br, according to a source close to the case. The hotel, which is going to be a four-star business hotel, will have two restaurants, three conference halls and a rooftop bar and restaurant. With an accommodation of up to 60 vehicle parking space. The larger conference hall accommodates up to 150 attendants. GERETTA Consulting Architects & Engineers Plc designed the architecture of the hotel. GERETTA, which engages in architectural design, project supervision and contract administration of projects, had previously designed the Oromo Cultural Centre building, the Burkina Faso Embassy, Snap Plaza, and Zefmesh Grand Mall, just to name a few. Two years ago Bon had signed a management deal with a local property developing company Tadal Trading Plc, an authorised Capital Cement distributor. The Company was founded by Tadesse Tilahun, CEO of National Oil Company (NOC) and his son Alem Tadesse, to open a 72-key three-star hotel. Bon Hotel Plaza Addis Abeba is located in the area locally known as Rwanda. Currently, the owners are working on finishing and in the process of importing furniture. Bon Hotels, founded in 2012, currently operated a total of 20 hotels in South Africa, Nambia, Ethiopia and Nigeria, of which 15 of them are under construction all on different stages of completion. Bon Hotels would get 15pc to 20pc share of revenue from the new hotel that will be opened soon. Currently, there are six operating international brand hotels; Radisson Blu, Sheraton Addis, Marriott Executive Apartment, Hilton Addis, Ramada Addis and Golden Tulip. While the management deals with over 30 international brand hotels have been signed, they are at different stages of completion. The number of hotels in Addis Abeba has reached 1,129 increasing from the 417 five years ago, close to 120 of them are star rated. Addis Abeba has made over one billion dollars as a result of 427,797 tourists who sensed the city during the last six months of the current fiscal year, according to a data from the Addis Abeba Culture & Tourism Bureau. The entrance of such hotels would help the city and the country get more business and conference tourists, according to Essayas Woldu, managing consultant at On Point Management Solutions. "In most of the African countries, the quantity of franchised hotels attracts more tourists," said Essayas, who has over a decade of experience in hospitality and tourism industry.