Kenya advanced to the second and final round of the qualifiers after a goalless draw away to Uganda on Sunday in Kampala. The Harambee Starlets booked their passage on a 1-0 aggregate win. The first half of the game was attack dominated from the onset as the Kenya Starlets tried to get an early goal but the Cranes stood firm at the back with goalkeeper Ruth Aturo forced to make a couple of saves. Carolyne Omondi could have given Kenya the lead few minutes into the game but the woodwork denied her with Aturo completely beaten. The Cranes had a shot at goal but captain Hasifa Nassuna's free-kick was no trouble for Kenya goalie Poline Atieno. The move gave the host hope as Atieno became busier in goal saving a one-on-one with Juliet Nalukenge with the tip of her finger as the first half ended. In the second half, the Cranes threatened their guests but timely clearance from Lilian Adera and Wendy Achieng in the opening minutes ensured the scoreline remain unchanged. Kenya's Vivian Corazone tested Aturo on 56 minute with a fierce shot that the latter saved to the admiration of the fans. The Cranes best chance came on 65 minutes but Nassuna was denied by Atieno from close range as the Kenya held on for a barren scoreline to progress to the next round. Cranes captain Nassuna was disappointed but commended her colleagues for the spirited output. "It's a bad feeling not to win home. We were very wasteful in both halves. We had chances to score, but the Kenyans had the advantages of physique size winning most of the aerial balls especially in defence," Nassuna said. "We knew Uganda was a good team and we were ready for anything. We did not underrate them because they gave us a good run in the first leg. We knew what we wanted and we worked to achieve it," Kenya captain Wendy Achieng posited. The Starlets will face Equatorial Guinea at the final round. Results Sunday, 8 April 2018 Uganda 0-0 Kenya (0-1) Zambia 1-1 Tanzania (3-3) Zimbabwe 2-0 Namibia (2-0) Central African Republic 1-1 Congo (0-2) Tuesday, 10 April 2018 Algeria vs Senegal (1-2) Ethiopia vs Libya (8-0) Cote d'Ivoire vs Morocco (1-1) Gambia vs Burkina Faso (1-2) Swaziland vs Lesotho (0-1)