A Kenyan student in the United States has come out in defence of her relationship with her boyfriend which has been branded 'disgusting' by her friends. Rahab Kimani, 21, of Barnaget, New Jersey, says she 'immediately wanted' Joe Singiser, 54, when she met him through work at a nursing home. Rahab told Mail online that she was branded 'disgusting' by friends over the age-gap in the relationship even as the couple celebrate their first anniversary. Mr Singiser, a father of four, said he was 'surprised' when he found himself attracted to a much younger employee but decided to pursue the romance because he knew it was 'true love'. Rahab, a student and home health aid, said that her friends were really disgusted with her for finding an older man attractive. But she is quick to add that she felt very comfortable with Singiser on their first date. AGE DIFFERENCE "We laughed the whole night and had so much to talk about. I remember after I got home I couldn't stop smiling." Similarly, when her family found out about the relationship, they didn't take it positively, something she found really hard dealing with. "I had to give them their space and I cried almost every single day." She revealed she first found Joe attractive while he was her supervisor and really liked his big muscles and that everyone at work was afraid of him. On his part Joe said he 'noticed her beautiful smile from across the room' and would find excuses to come out of his office just to see her. Rahab says that while she no longer sees the age difference, they do draw looks from strangers on the street. MARRIAGE She cites an incident when someone approached her and told her that she should be ashamed of herself for being just after Singiser's money. "I did get sensitive, but I just walked away," she says. Joe has introduced Rahab to his children who are very accepting of their relationship. The 54-year-old admitted that while they share many interests, there is also compromise. "We are in two different places in our lives," he said. While she parties all night he is often in bed by 10pm but they make it work because they love each other. The couple, who have been together for a year, now live together and are considering starting a family together and are have started discussing the possibility of marriage.