While religious leaders have special place in the social life of Ethiopians, scholars in the field of Theology stress on the fact that they should up their strategic role to work for peace and consensus in times of crisis. In the past, Ethiopia's religious leaders such as Abune Petros, who took part in refusing colonialism and the killing of innocent Ethiopians by fascist Italy and Abune Basilios, who refused to recognize the 1960 coup that would lead the country into chaos and crisis are exemplary leaders that played a key role for justice and peace. The scholars claim that at the present time also religious leaders have an irreplaceable role in ensuring national peace. Lecturer at the Ethiopian Graduate School of Theology Andrew DeCort tells The Ethiopian Herald that Ethiopia unfortunately seems to lack religious leadership that, in other contexts, has played strategic roles during times of public crisis. Exemplifying the contributions of both Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Archbishop Desmund Tutu who won Noble Peace Prizes for their extraordinary leadership in helping to resolve entrenched inequality, hatred, and violence in their societies, the Scholar father mentions that Ethiopia needs to have strong religious institutions and leaders to this same effect. He also says that the role of religious leaders and institutions in securing national peace is often reflected in terms of 'tolerance.' Andrew further elaborates the point saying that love in every religion is deeper, more personal, sacrificial having vision of living with others and loving them until a beloved community is created. "The doctrine requires actively working towards others' well-being, even to so called enemies". For Andrew the pattern seen in the Ethiopian society today, especially on social media, are causes or doorways to mass violence which is against the teaching 'Love your neighbor - all neighbors, across gender, religion, ethnicity, or any other marker of identity.' Hence, there is an urgent need on the side of religious leaders and institutions to articulate, practice, and advocate this vision for the common good across all boundaries for all people. "Religious leaders and institutions often remain silent or content to care for their own people in the safety of their own walls. But God's love requires that we go beyond our own limited communities for the well-being of all." He further points out that the dream of national peace and reconciliation becomes a real hope with such religious leadership and highly engaging religious institutions working in the area. Hence, he says "I fear that we are in grave danger of indifference, antagonism, division, and death. And we urgently need the vision of 'neighbor-love' to create a common good of peace, justice, and reconciliation." He mentions that such a move by religious institutions and leaders needs skills to unify and mobilize ordinary people for nonviolent call for justice and reconciliation. "This demands effective religious leadership through speech, action, and organization." Gospel Teacher in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church at St. Michael Cathedral at Mekanisa Akalewold Tessema on his part says that religious institutions need to stand for the good of their congregation. Akalewold, who is also a PhD candidate of Philology at AAU, believes that religious institutions and leaders need to be neutral and develop trust within the hearts and minds of their followers as they are more accepted, heard and obeyed by their followers than politicians. But due to political bias many religious fathers are not effectively discharging their spiritual responsibility-- in bringing about peace and stability in the nation which calls for neutrality. He further says that as majority of Ethiopians are very religious, religious institutions on the service should actively engage in teaching, preaching and directing their public towards peaceful coexistence. "Due to lack of neutrality on the side of some religious leaders, they are losing trust which is becoming difficult to secure peace in the nation," he underlines. The other challenge of religious institutions in securing peace is lack of a well-established communication structure and transparency at all levels. Furthermore, he says the church and religious institutions should not be silent on the areas of peace and governance gaps in the nation. They have to have take part in consulting and presenting alternative solutions on different national matters that the government and the people are arguing on. They have to teach their followers when they are taking wrong steps while questing for good governance demands, he underlines. He exemplifies that Abune Basilios is an exemplary religious leader in resolving public chaos and undemocratic regime change movements in 1950's and 60's, he stresses. Haji Omer Idris, a Muslim Scholar, also says even if Ethiopia has been entertaining religious freedom since the adoption of the FDRE constitution, there are gaps on religious institutions towards working together in the ongoing effort of ensuring peace in the nation. Religious institutions have spiritual responsibility to keep peace and teach about it. He adds "They are responsible to teach what is good and denounce what is destructive to the good of humanity." Islam teaches to respect others' belief and to create legal and compassionate relationship among different religions so as to solve problems in a peaceful manner, Haji Omer says. Furthermore, he states that the institutions need to work on unity, peace, development and eradicating poverty which are interwoven together. "The institutions need to teach their congregation towards the rewarding benefit of peace." Religious institutions should give priority to public interests and play a mediating role between the public and the government to sustain peace. They should also present alternative problem solving approaches and creating discussion forums, he remarks. The Scholar further points out that religious institutions should exert an utmost effort to ensure peace in the nation as they have missions to avoid causalities. They have to work both on advising the government to correct wrong actions and to directing people to see things reasonably based on the reality on the ground instead of hoping or desiring things which are beyond the government's capacity, Haji Omer further says. All the Scholars believe that these institutions need to play a middle ground role between the government and the public on important national agendas including in ensuring peace.