Zambia and India have signed four agreements which will see Zambians and Indians avoid double taxation as well as Zambia benefiting from an entrepreneurship development centre as the two countries forge further ties. The agreements were signed yesterday at State House and President Edgar Lungu and his Indian counterpart Ram Nath Kovind witnessed the ceremony. The first memorandum of understanding (MoU) was on the avoidance of double taxation which entails establishing a legal framework in which residents working in both countries would not be subjected to double taxation. The agreement was signed by Foreign Affairs Minister Joe Malanji and the Indian High Commissioner to Zambia Ngulkham Gangte. The second agreement was on exempting visas for people holding diplomatic passports in both Zambia and India and it was signed by Home Affairs Minister Stephen Kampyongo and Mr Gangte. The third agreement was on bilateral judicial sector cooperation which would result in long term and short term training in law and justice developments. It would also help clear the backlog of cases and it was signed by Justice Minister Given Lubinda and Mr Gangte. The fourth agreement was on the establishment of the Entrepreneurship and Cooperative Development Centre (ECDC). The centre conformed with Zambia's Vision 2030 to develop entrepreneurship in Zambia and it was signed by Commerce, Trade and Industry Minister Christopher Yaluma and Mr Gangte. Earlier, President Lungu during the bilateral talks with President Kovin and his delegation said that he was hopeful that the visit would result in a strengthened relationship and revitalise the Joint Permanent Commission, last held in 2005. Mr Lungu said Zambia and India had cooperated in various fields like the construction of the 650 health posts, agriculture and science and technology. "I wish to welcome you to Zambia and we are happy that you are the first Indian president to visit after the last visit 30 years ago," he said. President Kovind said the relationship of Zambia and India started before Zambia's Independence saying that the nation's founding father drew inspiration from the father of India Mahatma Ghandi. He said he was convinced that the interaction during his three-day visit would yield in stronger bonds of cooperation.