Dodoma — DODOMA-based Benjamin Mkapa Hospital (BMH) yesterday discharged the first person who underwent a kidney transplant at the public health facility last month after improvement of his condition. BMH Executive Director, Dr Alphonse Chandika, said here yesterday that the hospital will continue to monitor Mr Elias Sweti's health condition. He said the hospital's doctors will be visiting the 51-year old man twice a week within one month in order to monitor his condition. "Even after discharging Mr Sweti, we'll continue to monitor his health condition until he completely recovers," said the BMH boss at a joint press briefing with the University of Dodoma (UDOM) Vice Chancellor, Prof Egid Mubofu and Mr Sweti's family. BMH in partnership with UDOM's College of Health and Japan- based Tokushukai Medical Group made a breakthrough yet again after performing a kidney transplant on a 51-yearold man becoming the second health facility in the country after Muhimbili National Hospital. Mr Sweti expressed gratitude to both institutions, UDOM and BMH for the operation and covering medical costs, saying previously he could not eat well due to kidney complications and that he had a restless life. Ms Neema Sweti, the kidney donor, said she was one of the four family members appointed to donate the kidney to his brother. She added that several relatives volunteered to donate the kidney to his brother. "But, doctors had called for close relatives largely blood sisters and brothers to donate the kidney," she said. UDOM Vice-Chancellor, Prof Mubofu, noted that the kidney transplant at BMH had demonstrated that Dodoma was now ready to accommodate members of the public in the health sector after the government's relocation to the central region. He said the Japanbased Tokushukai Medical Group who entered an agreement with UDOM's College of Health for training support to its students would continue to train doctors under the agreement which ends 2021 "We'll continue to provide BMH with resource support to enhance health services at the facility," said the UDOM Vice-Chancellor.