The month of March was a month of mixed feelings as happenings around the country made it so. We have compiled a list of some top occurrences around the country that happened in the month of March. Release of Dapchi schoolgirls: The release of 101 schools girls who were abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents from their school Government Girls Science and Technical College (GGSTC) Dapchi, Yobe state, caused an uproar in the town. On February 19, 2018, 110 schoolgirls were kidnapped by the insurgents from their school in Dapchi. However about five of them died as a result of congestion in the vehicle they were put into while they were taken away. Shehu Sani's statement on senators' salary: Another story that got social media on fire was the statement made by the senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani. The senator stated that Nigerian Senators earn N13.5 million monthly as running cost. He added that it was in addition to the over N750, 000 monthly consolidated salary and allowances of each member of the Senate. He, however, kicked against payment of allowances, saying Senators should be paid just salaries. But the senate reacted to his statements by saying he didn't say anything new. This was contained in a statement signed by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Dr. Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi. He said the senator did not disclose anything new as the figure he gave out about running cost of the offices of Senators were contained in various line items and expenditure heads of the budget of the National Assembly which has been made public "Almost all holders of elective and appointive offices have running costs allocated to their offices and that cannot be said to be part of their salaries." Ty Danjuma's self-defense remarks: Following several attacks on communities by herdsmen in different parts of the country last month, a former minister of defence, Gen TY Danjuma (retired) called on all Nigerians to use self-defense as a means of protecting themselves from attacks. His statement elicited mixed reactions from Nigerians as his statements became a topic of discussion everywhere and the social media was not one medium Nigerians used to express how they felt about his remarks. While some supported his views, others were against it because they said it could fuel crisis in the region as well as other parts of the country.