President Hage Geingob last week warned Chinese nationals not to bribe or accept corrupt proposals from his ministers or Namibians. Geingob said this during a meeting where he addressed Chinese business people during a week-long official visit to China last week and this week. The President emphasised that bribery was illegal. "We want to do clean business so that we create win-win situations. No corruption, whether from the Namibian side or this [Chinese] side," he said. Geingob's remarks were first reported by the Namibian Broadcasting Corporation, which sent a team to cover Geingob's visit to China. The President also defended Namibia's ties to China saying the government chose the Asian powerhouse because he believes Namibia would get better deals. "We don't want to go back empty-handed. We want to go back with concrete plans," he said. A person who attended the meeting said the President also spoke about influence peddling to get state contracts. Geingob's comments about bribes come about four years after he went to China as Prime Minister for eight days. He vaguely revealed in October 2016 at State House that he declined money offered to him by "some people", but did not say what the money was for or who the givers were. "I returned money. I will never ask anybody for a cent," he said at the time. He said he could not involve himself in "small things" which would tarnish his reputation. A person who was part of that trip said Geingob was offered money by Chinese business people during the 2014 Chinese trip and that the money was indeed returned. Presidential spokesperson Alfredo Hengari on Saturday said Geingob and Chinese president Xi Jinping agreed the fight against corruption was necessary to build trust. Hengari added that the leaders condemned wildlife poaching in Namibia. Chinese nationals have over the years been implicated in wildlife poaching and trafficking, as well as tax evasion. Geingob is said to have cautioned against xenophobia against Chinese nationals, but he also warned that they are not above the law. According to a person who was briefed about Geingob's thinking, the Namibian head of state is convinced that Namibia features in China's long-term plans. The President is said to be impressed by Jinping's promises because the Chinese president holds complete sway over the Chinese state and his directives are implemented without delay.