PART II The disagreement, disturbances and demonstrations conducted by some people within the Amhara and Oromia Regions is directly related to the continuous interference by those toxic Diasporas on the internal affairs of the nation intended to destroy the constitution and the constitutional order of the land and to grasp power by all means including through violence and anarchy as opposed to the HR 128 claim. This too was not carefully analyzed by those who sponsored HR128 against Ethiopia. Here at home, we have witnessed unlawful gatherings crating havocs here and there often times than not and tend to get into emotions and take part in unlawful, destructive and uncivilized manner. In any demonstration, the people at large must comprehend their rights and responsibilities during the process. Rights and responsibilities go hand in hand and they are two sides of the same coin; therefore, responsible people must always be aware of their rights and responsibilities and they must not be carried away with emotions or irresponsible behavior. Instead, they must become very careful and always be prudent when conducting demonstrations because the whole public is watching and judging their behavior, their characteristics and their general performances. We have witnessed recent activities here at home and most of them were way below the required standard and unexpected from a civilized society aspiring to represent the interest of the public at large. Here, I am referring to some illegal and destructive activities made by some few people against our national interest and against our sovereignty. I was especially shocked to hear people calling names based on ethnicity, religious or linguistic backgrounds. In our era of 21st century, dialogue, tolerance and mutual understanding is the way to go and not chauvinism, racism, egocentrism and religious fundamentalism among others. These are outdated, archive and a zero sum losing games with no positive results. The young generation can learn a lesson or two from the experiences of the more democratic nations like the US to be tolerant and refrain from being intolerance, chauvinist, ego-centrist and racist because such behavior is ignorant and uncivilized. Further, that kind of behavior usually emanates from lack of substance or mere ignorance or from both. That is what is going on with few toxic Diasporas stationed in the US. Unethical and uncivilized personal attack based on ethnicity, linguistic and religious background has nothing to do with any democratic and civilized behavior or even freedom of speech because that kind of behavior is simply foolish and unacceptable least to say. Providing alternative and useful agendas, programs pertinent to the developmental endeavor of the nation and the public at large has everything to do with democratic demonstrations and that is not analyzed by the HR 128 sponsors. Therefore, baseless finger pointing and attacks on a nation and its people is regrettable least to say. Therefore, HR 128 should have seen and focused on issues, substances, programs, strategies and tactics undertaken in Ethiopia in order to help the nation and the public at large and not on cheap and unethical comments that can backfire and that can have detrimental and regrettable effect on the sponsors own personalities. People are judged by their behavior among others and people want to hear gentle, intelligent and wise personalities. They want to see and hear substance not insult; so, one has to be careful not to insult the intelligence of the public at large. Some fundamentalist and chauvinist Diasporas stationed in the US who have been busy knocking the doors of every US congress, have time and again tried to use religious and ethnic cover-ups in order to advance their personal and/ or group's hidden agendas. They have tried time and again to infiltrate and jeopardize this solid interpersonal, inter religious and ethnic harmony that lasted for generations between and among the Ethiopian people and that was instrumental in maintaining the national stability and peaceful coexistence amongst this nation. They have now erroneously succeeded to convince the sponsors of HR128 in that regard. However, this inter personal inter religious and other relationships between and among the Ethiopian people is deeply rooted, highly intertwined and profoundly entrenched within the blood and sole of the Ethiopian people. Therefore, they did not succeed in advancing their divisive and menacing agendas before and they cannot and will not be able to succeed in the 21st century with this generation either. Religious extremism, terrorism and advancement of hate propaganda using religious cover up and xenophobic agenda is a thing of the past, an obsolete, archaic, uncivilized and backward phenomenon that this dynamic and vibrant generation of the 21st century living in Ethiopia cannot and will not accept. Currently we saw in an unprecedented and senseless cruelty and cold blooded murder in its worst way, form and shape an act of brutality based simply on xenophobia by few individual criminals, few toxic Diasporas, Genbot 7, OLF and the likes who are stationed in the US over innocent people. What a great shame! II hope that such inhuman and savagery act of terror will never happen again anywhere to anyone and that people will take a lesson or two from that savagery act of murder. Unlike the false claims by the HR128 and unlike what the toxic Diasporas want the US congress to believe, the Ethiopian Government has released many descendants, journalists, activists who have violated the constitution and the constitutional order Those who were taken to prison are now given amnesty and are released and free. Instead of accusing the Ethiopian government in that regard, one can simply come to Ethiopia to see things for one's perusal. Respect for human, citizenship and democratic rights and freedom of speech, movement, demonstration etc. are entrenched within the Ethiopian constitution. Those rights are not matters of choice rather, they are matters of life and death because the Ethiopian people fought and gave their lives to secure them. The relationship between and among our people is what we inherited from our ancestors and that noble relationship is what we must pass to the next generation and not violence, conflicts and wars that toxic Diasporas are on the daily basis trying to export to our nation and trying to confuse the international community in general and the American congress in particular. Conflicts and war, illegal and violent activities as ways and means of achieving individual, group or institutional goals and objectives will always have detrimental consequences on peace and development of any nation because they cause damage, destruction and underdevelopment that are highly regrettable. Few negative people want to deny Ethiopians of these precious values and norms they shared together for centuries. How can one separate these men from mercenaries? A mercenary sells his country and his people for money. That is exactly what these mercenary men have done from their sanctuary in North America living comfortably there and wanting Ethiopians who live in this country together sharing their values and norms for centuries to kill each other.