The recent theatre mix-up saga at Kenyatta National Hospital continues to elicit debate, most of which has been skewed towards finding the person most culpable. Interestingly, ongoing investigations have unearthed fault lines within the health profession with doctors rallying behind "one of their own" and passing the buck to the nurses and the hospital's management. Predictably, the doctors' regulator, Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board (KMPDB), unequivocally laid blame on the duty nurse. The parliamentary committee investigation should have gone beyond the fault lines and established the root causes of such a catastrophic medical error to avoid a recurrence. Cases of surgical errors involving medical registrars and their mentors have been a subject of empirical research. SURGICAL RESIDENTS In 1979, sociologist Charles Bosk published the results of a study in a teaching hospital of the behaviour by surgical residents and their seniors. The study focused on the identification and management of error, which culminated in publication of a book titled Forgive and Remember. Errors are forgiven if they are remembered and not repeated. Bosk's research findings should be extended to all healthcare professionals and organisations in acknowledging errors and remembering not to repeat them. The healthcare profession is built on the principle, "First, do no harm". This requires utmost care before undertaking any medical procedure. But despite guidelines on preoperative procedures, medical errors still threaten patient safety. Thousands of deaths occur annually due to preventable medical errors -- which may happen deliberately or out of negligence. The key lesson when they occur is not to shift blame but learn from them. The political, professional and social angle this case has taken demands a closer look at KNH's patient safety culture. SAFETY Admittedly, KNH has an organisational responsibility to ensure safety of patients. Aspects such as values, attitudes, perceptions, competencies and patterns of behaviour of the teams and individuals (nurses, doctors) will bring out some insights as to what needs to be changed. KNH must also acknowledge its patient safety problem and provide open communication and support systems for employees, managers and patients. The outcome of the inquiry notwithstanding, blaming an individual will not prevent errors from recurring. Fundamentally, we need to retool our conceptualisation of the sources of mistakes from blaming individuals to analysing system failures. System-based mistakes such as decisions that lead to under-staffing, excessive workload or long working hours may lie dormant in the system for some time but only become active under certain circumstances. In particular, there is a need to review patient identification. PATIENT IDENTIFICATION Procedurally, first, the patient should have had an identification band at the point of admission. Second, patient identification should have happened at the shift handover. Third, authentication of the patient's identity should have happened during handover from the admitting surgeon to the operating surgeon. Lastly, this should have been replicated when obtaining consent for anaesthesia and surgery. Surely, all these protocols were not breached by a nurse! We need a culture change in the healthcare system that lays more emphasis on teamwork between the doctors and nurses rather than the silo mentality seemingly at play. We see blame games along professional lines instead of collective responsibility by doctors, nurses and management. Perhaps this error has opened up a whole research field that the government should consider for funding. Dr Onsongo, a registered nurse, lectures at the School of Nursing, Kenyatta University. onsongo.lister@ku.ac.ke