Operating a hotel independently may mean more control and flexibility when making significant decisions. But branded hotels offer access to larger customer databases and substantial marketing budgets. David Desta (destadavid@gmail.com), a Cornell University graduate from the School of Hotel Administration who has been working in Ethiopia for the past several years, explains the dilemma. Ethiopia has experienced an influx of properties flooding the market with approximately over 600 hotels in total. Of these, the international hotel chains currently under-development last year stood at 20 properties with a total of 3,819 rooms, according to a W Hospitality report. Nigeria has 61 hotels and 10,313 rooms in their pipeline this year. The presence of international hotels will continue to grow with brands eager to expand their footprint in the East African region. Hilton Hotels - slow to expand on the continent - even launched its development fund to help finance conversions and increase its branded supply of rooms in Africa. This will focus primarily on its DoubleTree brand which is expected to open in Bahir Dar within the next few years. Thus, hotel investors and owners face one of their toughest choices when determining the direction in which their new project will go. Is it better to operate a hotel as an independent, unaffiliated property? Or is allowing a brand to handle the management and marketing of the property the right way to go? Fortunately, there are many pros and cons of going either independent or branded. By operating a hotel as an unaffiliated property, one can create a unique identity and experience for the clientele - ranging from the design, type of service, and food and beverage offerings - while showcasing personal taste and culture. It also helps to have control and flexibility when making significant decisions. Additionally, adhering to brand guidelines that can be tedious and expensive will not be an issue. There are no minimum number of room requirements, design and service standards, and lengthy contracts which are difficult to terminate. But non-veteran hospitality enthusiasts or those looking not to get their hands dirty with the day-to-day operations ought to go for a brand affiliation. That is not as easy as it sounds though. Deciding a brand is a daunting task on its own. Even as far as close to a decade ago, there were over 300 different hotel brands with no one brand dominating the market, according to an estimate by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) - a multinational professional services firm. Today, we have witnessed giants arise from mergers and acquisitions. Marriott International boasts a portfolio of 30 brands with over 6,400 hotels in 126 countries. Accor Hotels is close behind with its 28 brands and 4,195 hotels in 95 countries. Still, there are hundreds of other brands to choose from that are trying to capitalise on the growth in emerging markets. Branding has become a spectacle as travellers and owners seek consistent services, economies of scale in marketing and distribution, and market power. The decisions that owners must consider are the reputation, the effectiveness of distribution and reservation systems, fee structure and, most importantly, profitability. The cost of building a hotel is expensive. Worse, funding is difficult to obtain especially for first-timers with no prior experience in the industry. That is why many international lenders - such as banks and private equity firms - tend to provide cheaper financing for projects with a global operator and brand in the mix. Access to finance is tricky in Ethiopia. Local banks are hesitant to put millions of dollars into projects that will probably face delays and shortcomings. International lenders are just the same. But in the rare case, they do invest in hotel projects, their loan terms are brutal with high-interest rates and strict requirements. Hotels are risky investments with perishable inventory. Every night a room is not sold is like an expired jug of milk at a supermarket. It is important to remember that returns are likely to be seen after years of operating. Profits will not appear overnight. If one chooses to be an owner involved in the theme and direction of the hotel, the independent route is better. It will not be easy though. Branded hotels offer the advantages of ready-to-go built designs and guidelines, and access to larger customer databases and reach. Add to that bargaining power with online travel agents (Expedia, or Booking), technical support in the form of experienced management, and substantial marketing budgets. Branded hotels might pull in higher room occupancy and revenue. However, their management fees and costs are high, and the margins of being a brand versus an independent will balance out. The fee structure of brands is usually a percentage of revenues irrespective of how much money was generated by the franchisor. Furthermore, the audits, renovations, and system requirements, such as property management systems are very expensive. These recurring costs will eventually eat away at an owner's returns. And failure to adhere to brand guidelines can result in the termination of the management and franchise agreement. Contracts can go as high as 10pc to 20pc in Ethiopia depending on the brand and its segment. This share is sent abroad with little to no reinvestment into the local community or industry. The appeal of a brand is understandable, but niche concepts and independents are beginning to occupy a significant slice of the industry pie globally. Independent operation of a hotel saves money on brand fees, but realistically these savings will need to be invested into intense marketing efforts and paying higher commissions to online third-party sellers, such as Booking.com. Nonetheless, one would be able to provide travellers with a unique experience and originality - which is what many seek. After all, being an independent is all about control, identity, and customisation. Operating an independent hotel requires discipline and experienced business acumen. More essentially, it requires the desire and capability to successfully control a hotel's destiny. David Desta (Destadavid@gmail.com), a Cornell University Graduate From the School of Hotel Administration Who Has Been Working in Ethiopia for the Past Several Years