Gospel musician Elizabeth Manyowa is set to launch her fourth album titled "Mazuva Okuipa" at Star FM tomorrow evening. Manyowa, who said she is not related to the award-winning gospel diva Janet Manyowa, will launch the six-track album live with disc jockey Richard Kohola at 6.30pm. The album was produced by Tawanda Chibedura of Pakare Paye Studios and mastered by Ward5silver. It also features Rumbi Zvirikuzhe of the "Huya Mweya Mutsvene"fame on the song "Ndauya". Some of the songs on the album are "Tsvakai Jehovah", "Ndauya", "When Times are Bad" and "Nzvimbo Yomweya" among others. In an interview, the bubbly musician said she was happy to be back and fans should expect songs of blessings. "It is good to be back and I had missed fulfilling my calling. I was on, should I say sabbatical, focusing on raising my only boy child and concentrating on my studies. I am launching my album at Star FM with DJ Richard Kohola and encourage my fans to listen to the show," she said. Manyowa said she wrote all the songs after being inspired by church sermons and the Bible. "My album is derived from Matthew 24 as I was meditating the word of God. The whole chapter talks of perilous times that we are living in and they are pointers to the second coming of Jesus Christ. The song 'Tsvakai Jehovah' is a remake form my first album which I did in 1998. Another song, 'Ndauya' is also a remake from my 2005 album. I thought of rebranding them to suit 2018 and as they were favourites of many," she said. The mother of one said she draws inspiration from her mother Apostle Fatima Makuvaza, founder of her church Stone of Help Ministries and singer Shuvai Wutawunashe. "My mother is my pillar of strength. I love Mai Shuvai Wutawunashe's songwriting and spiritual maturity. Infact we had planned to do a collabo on this album but she got busy. I would like also to thank Pastor Carol Mujokoro and former gospel musician Ivy Kasi for identifying and nurturing my talent. I also want to pay tribute to my late band member Peter Majoni while we were recording, 'Ndauya' song in 2009," she said.