Nairobi — Kenya is set to be a major key player in offering green energy solutions in Africa after a Norwegian based energy solutions company opened its continental offices in Nairobi. W.Giertsen Energy Solutions on Thursday opened its regional office in Nairobi meant to serve East Africa and the whole continent at large with an aim of offering sustainable, reliable and eco-friendly energy solutions. The company key focus will be to offer solar energy systems, hall systems and solar lighting. According to the company CEO Frank Mohn the decision to invest in Africa and specifically in Kenya was an easy one. He explained that Nairobi offered a good business hub with the city energy market predictability playing a major role in the decision. He further said that although the company had an office in Uganda their major energy system had been installed in Somalia an initiative that turned out to be more of a humanitarian project with the energy generated been offered to the health sector. "Kenya is a natural entry hub and at the middle of the region we are aiming for. In the rest of Africa we have already installed 35,000 energy systems and now it is time to expand. These systems are primarily in Somalia and we feel it as worthwhile adventure because if you are to supply energy in such a brittle state the whole project takes a new meaning which is far from business," Mohn noted. Speaking to Capital FM News the manager Deborah Ssempasa said they were open to any business venture with their main target being on NGOs as well as the medium commercial and industrial businesses. However, she explained they had identified a market gap in the agribusiness sector with the company having recently installed an energy system at the Muguku farm in Kikuyu. "We don't do small companies, we want to deal with the large scale ones. In Kenya we have previously worked in with NGOs in Kenya such as the Red Cross where we have installed lab holes. We want to dwell more on commercial projects in Kenya and we have already started this with the Muguku poultry farm. We ask our clients to trust us as we have enough experience in energy provision since 1960s," Ssempassa said.