Vakufilapo Wilhelm retained his WBF Africa super welterweight title in dramatic style when he beat Limbani Masamba of Malawi on a sixth round technical knockout on Saturday night. After catching Masamba on the ropes, Wilhelm unleashed a flurry of heavy blows and although the Malawian tried to slug it out, he was no match for the powerful Wilhelm. Masamba decided he had had enough and after 2 minutes 39 seconds he put his hands up in surrender and walked away, leaving the referee little option but to stop the fight. Earlier Wilhelm had entered the hall at the Windhoek Showgrounds to the deafening roar of a revving Harley Davidson, but he took a while to match his novel entrance in the ring. He landed some stiff jabs early on, but the fight only came alive in the third round when Wilhelm displayed some quick hand speed with combinations to the head and body. Masamba fought back on the counter-attack, but didn't offer much in return as intermittent spurts of action were interspersed with longer periods of bobbing and weaving. The fight, however, exploded into action in the sixth round when Wilhelm caught Masamba with a barrage of blows, and although the Malawian tried to respond, he couldn't match Wilhelm's power and decided he had had enough. It was Wilhelm's seventh successive victory as a professional while Masamba's record now stands at 12 wins and 10 defeats. After the fight Wilhelm said Masamba was a tough competitor. "It wasn't easy; he's a tough competitor and he came with a lot of experience. He had 21 fights and I only had six fights. To step up for a challenge like this you have to be man enough, it's the sport of boxing, it's the sweet science. You might have the experience, you might be taller or bigger, but it's all about boxing, and experience does not matter when you've got the talent and you work hard," he said. "I am the Namibian dream, I am the next big thing and I'm aiming for many more international titles and I'll bring the world title home," he added. In the main supporting bout Nathaneal Kakololo won the vacant WBF Africa featherweight title with a unanimous decision against Israel Kammwamba of Malawi. In a terrific fight, with fortunes swaying to and fro, both boxers gave it their all as they slugged it out to the delight of the 500-strong crowd. Kakololo came out firing and edged the early rounds with his high work rate and sharp combinations, but Kammwamba improved as the fight progressed and edged the middle rounds. Kakololo, however, got a second wind by the eighth round and edged the final rounds to win a unanimous decision with the judges scoring it 98-92, 97-93, 99-92 in his favour. Willbeforce Shihepo, meanwhile, made his return to the ring in controversial style as he beat Mussa Ajibu of Malawi on a third round technical knockout. Both boxers managed to land some big shots, but they wrestled each other more, and Ajibu landed on the canvas a few times, complaining that Shihepo had pushed him down. The end came in dramatic fashion in the third round when Ajibu was pushed down again, but this time he shook his head indicating that he didn't want to continue and the referee stopped the fight. With Shihepo celebrating his victory, Ajibu, however, changed his mind, got up and once again started fighting with Shihepo, before both boxers' corners stormed into the ring to pull them apart. It was a crazy end to the fight that besmirched an otherwise excellent evening of entertainment. The results of the other fights were as follows: Frans Naanda beat Titus Thomas on a unanimous points decision in a bantamweight fight. (39-36, 39-38, 40-36). Simon Madhanire beat Walter Mukoroli on a second round knockout in a heavyweight fight. The super featherweight fight between David Shinuna and Costa Frans ended in a no contest after Shinuna got cut after a clash of heads and the fight was aborted on the advice of the ring doctor. Gabriel Imalwa beat Tommy Nakashimba on a unanimous pointsdecision in a super featherweight fight (57-56, 58-55, 58-55). Nathaneal Sebastian beat Dominicus Weyulu on a third round TKO in a super featherweight fight. Alfeus Shilongo beat Ndangi Shapwa on a third round TKO in a middleweight fight.