Namibia qualified for the 2018 u20 Rugby World Cup in Romania later this year after being declared as the overall winner of the African qualifying tournament earlier this month. Namibia won the Africa southern group after beating Kenya 37-18 in the final in Windhoek on 31 March. Earlier Namibia had beaten Zimbabwe 27-17, while Kenya beat Madagascar 51-13 in the first round. In the third place play-off Zimbabwe thrashed Madagascar 100-15. The northern group went down to the wire with Tunisia winning the final 11-8 against Senegal after a late drop goal by fly half Dhia Ben Dhied, two minutes into injury time. In their first round matches, Tunisia beat Ivory Coast 15-11, while Senegal beat Morocco 30-25. The third place play-off was also a close affair with Ivory Coast beating Morocco 11-5. Namibia and Tunisia both topped their groups, but Namibia won the overall Africa title after finishing with a +29 points aggregate, compared to Tunisia's +7 points aggregate. Namibia will now compete in the u20 World Cup which will be held in Bucharest, Romania from 28 August to 9 September. Namibia's senior Welwitschias side will, meanwhile, take on a Namibian Barbarians team on Wednesday night as it steps up its preparations for the SuperSport Rugby Challenge that starts later this month. The match will start at 19h00 at the Hage Geingob Stadium and the entrance is free. The Windhoek Draught Welwitschias team is as follows: Desiderius Sethie, Obert Nortje, AJ de Klerk, Ruan Ludick, Mahepisa Tjeriko, Leneve Damens, Rohan Kitshoff (captain), Adriaan Booysen, Eugene Jantjies, Helarius Kisting, Gino Wilson, Darryl de la Harpe, JC Greyling, Janre du Toit, Mahco Prinsloo. Reserves: Gerhard Lotter, Herman Grobler, Hans Breedt, Denzil van Wyk, Diamando Tjombe, Max Katjijeko, Cameron Langenhoven, Royal Otto, PW Steenkamp, Russel van Wyk, Chrysander Botha. The Namibian Barbarians team is as follows: Nian Berg, Niel van Vuuren, Jason Benade, Winmar Rust, Nick Kotze, Gilad Plaatjies, Reinhardt Carelse, Naude Neethling, Herman Stroh, Hanrico van Zyl, Chippie Lawrence, Johann Tromp, Tuna Amutenya, Paulus Hangula, Riaan van Zyl. Reserves: Theo Coetzee, Frank Mowa, Dewald Coetzee, Driaan Vorster, Lezardo Vos, Dirk von Weidts, Brandon Dentlinger, Francois Wiese, Godwin Goaseb, Hauta Veii.