While performing a duty, everything may not go right every day. Every profession could not be free from risks and dangers ,they could be reduced and corrected though. For example regardless of how many years of experience a doctor or firm may have, there is always a possibility of making medical errors while performing complicated surgeries or others. When one practice as a medical practitioner, one must ensure that he or she is insured or indemnified for every context in which you practice. This applies to all practice contexts, including private and public practice, self employed practitioners, those employed or contracted by others or working in an unpaid or volunteer capacity. Countries have come up with different arrangements that secure, for the practitioner, insurance against civil liability incurred by , or loss arising from a claim that is made as a result of a negligent act, error or omission in the conduct of the practitioner and organizations across a range of areas. Aiming at giving financial damage for loss caused to victim and supporting medical professionals, Doctors' and Practitioners' Professional Indemnity Insurance has been put in place in many countries where insurers finance legal costs and expenses in defending the claim, as well as compensation payable to the client to rectify the mistake. There has been huge demand from the Ethiopian health professionals to have insurance Ethio Life General Insurance Share Company recently introduced "Doctors' and Practitioners' Professional Indemnity Insurance" . "We have long sought the insurance for long, it is huge relieve for health professionals. The indemnity would make professionals secured and insured against any claims of medical errors. While professionals should take utmost care in treating their patients , they need financial be secured for any possible risk, said Ethiopian Medical Association Executive Director Dr. Yeneneh Getachew As doctors work hard to deliver good quality health care, things go wrong sometimes. Accordingly, it is important that doctors have adequate and appropriate insurance or indemnity to compensate the patient, he added. Any error could occur while doctors perform certain operations and deal with complicated health difficulties, and the professional indemnity insurance would make them financial secured for any claims, he said. Ethio-Life and General Insurance Share Company Chief Executive Officer Shemelese Gedlegiorgis for his part every profession has risks and medical is no exception. Well-known in other countries doctors' insurance gives professionals the confidence of professionals to perform complicated surgeries and other treatments. There has been a growing demand from medical professionals to have indemnity insurance that way the company has come up with this product, Shemelse adding that The insured doctors will have their court expenses covered and compensation claimed by a patient who sustained damage as a result of unintentional medical errors. Having professionals' indemnity insurance is a must in other countries. For example in the UK,in order to practice, a doctor must has medical indemnity insurance if not he or she will have her license removed to practice. As an employed doctor in a public hospital you are generally covered by your employer for claims arising from alleged acts or omissions by you when acting in accordance with your employment role. Many employed practitioners also obtain their own indemnity cover for matters that may arise from professional practice that falls outside the cover provided by the hospital. In simple terms, most hospitals purchase an insurance policy that covers the vicarious liability of staff including doctors and other healthcare professionals employed by the hospital. The insurance industry has lagged introducing new insurance products, despite greater opportunities available in the nation's market, says Association of Ethiopian Insurers, a coalition of one state-owned and 16 private insurance companies. However, the industry is contributing to Ethiopia's economic development by promoting financial stability, managing risks and encouraging national savings. In return, the ongoing growth and high foreign investment projects create demand for new insurance products, Association Secretary General Hadush Hentsay told The Ethiopian Herald. "The global insurance industry has reached significant stage of growth. But nation's insurance industry remains largely conventional, insurance companies should have done better. They need to catch up to the international standards as quick as possible." "Though many people find it hard to afford insurance services, those who do so other hand, have little knowledge about the advantages of being insured. Retaining existing customers and not adopting new services are also the current challenges facing the industry." It is up to the insurance companies to come up with new services and products to reach many people of different interests. "I think the insurers need to reconsider the way they are operating now and should introduce new services and technologies. If so the industry can create wealth and massive job opportunities."