The biggest campaign in medical circles is the provision of universal healthcare. It is one of the top priority items that the government has committed itself to and is, consequently, mobilising resources and rallying every stakeholder for the rollout. Underlying this is the quest to eliminate disease and create a healthy and vibrant society. However, this is a tall order. Evidence shows that the country has not dealt with the basics -- laying the foundation for universal healthcare, which presupposes the eradication of common diseases. MALARIA The World Malaria Day was marked yesterday with concern that some common diseases such as malaria and tuberculosis are on a rebound. For a long time, the government has invested heavily in the campaign against malaria, the second-leading cause of death in the country, but the gains are frittering away. There was a marked decline for the period leading up to 2016, but the figures have since stagnated at eight per cent. Moreover, it is worrying that Kenya is counted among the 16 African countries with the largest share of malaria infections globally. That is not an interesting ranking for a country aspiring to join the developed economies. FUNDING When eight per cent of the population suffer or live under the threat of malaria, and when statistics show that new infections are beginning to surface, then we have every reason to worry. The causes of malaria are well-known, and so are the areas of high prevalence. However, the challenge is inadequate funding and facilities to handle the disease. It has also emerged that there are increasing cases of resistance to antimalarial drugs, necessitating research for new prescriptions. STRATEGY With the implementation of universal healthcare, one of the things the national and county governments must do is to prioritise the elimination of the common diseases such as malaria. Many other countries have succeeded in that campaign, and, with past experience, where malaria infections were reduced remarkably, the disease can be managed. We need new strategies and increased funding to combat malaria and other common diseases.