Karitas Karisimbi insists on being referred to as 'Nalongo' - for having had twins eight years ago. Three months ago, Karitas returned to TV screens; specifically NBS TV, after a break. She says it's partly because her twins are now grown and also because TV is her passion. "During all this time while I was away, I matured," she says, "I wanted to come back with a much bigger impact; with my own idea, having a finished product so I could have control of my show." She says it is her way of maintaining relevance but TV few stations were willing to allow her free rein. She says even NBS TV which liked her concept switched a few things in the 'Chat room', which is the name of her show. She hosts celebrities mainly although she says anyone with a relevant and influential story is welcome. She explains although the target audience is largely female, she doesn't want to leave men out. "I want to talk about things that are relevant such that my guests can answer the things that they never want to answer," she says. Karitas also plans to start something with the youth and one of the avenues is to share her life story in a way to inspire them. She says it is a work in progress. "I am not where I want to be in terms of concept execution but I am too ambitious and know that I will get there," she says. Karitas hit Uganda TV in 2000 as a sizzling host of then famous 'Show time magazine' on WBS TV. She says she was working as a waitress at Hotel International in Kampala when she met Elvis Sekyanzi, a budding entertainment entrepreneur whose father Gordon Wavamunno owned WBS TV. After going through some test, she landed the 'Show time magazine' gig on WBS TV. She describes the three years on WBS as "amazing". She met and networked with lots of people and has never looked back. While still at WBS, she joined Sanyu FM presenting a midnight. Then after she quit WBS TV she joined Capital FM and did an afternoon show and later a morning show. She also worked with East African TV until she quit the media to in 2006, to concentrate on her production, K-files and her hair products business. Karitas is among the last of the nine children of Rwandan parents raised by a single mother. The family moved a lot under the care of guardians. That is how she ended up starting school in Nairobi, Kenya. She returned to Uganda for her secondary school at East Kololo and Namugongo in Kampala. She also went to City High, Royal College, and Hill Side International. At the time, she says, she wanted to be a lawyer. "I liked speaking for others and helping them to seek justice," she says, "But I realised that it was a very long journey so I took on a second option in the media something I don't regret." She did a Journalism course in Nairobi and IT in UK. Karitas Karisimbi's Liteside Any three things that we don't know about you? I am a shy person which many people find hard to believe because I always look direct into people's eyes when holding conversations. I am also selfless although sometimes the decisions I make in that regard are stupid. I am a dancer because dancing is my happy place. Over time, I have learnt that there is so much that we can do with everything, so I don't stress myself thinking about doing everything. Because as you grow old, the race against time sets in and almost everything matters. What is your idea of perfect happiness? My boys are miracle children and with them, my faith was renewed. What is your greatest fear? I fear disappointing others because when I make a promise, I feel that I should hold onto it. There is also the fear and pressure to raise my children into good citizens. What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? I procrastinate a lot; there is so much I would already have done by now if not for procrastination. What is the trait you most deplore in others? I can carry other things but not lies. Which living person do you most admire? My Mum Gertrude, is more than strong because she suffered two strokes but you can't tell. She sets her goals and sticks to them, loved one man was disappointed and quit to raise her children. I also admire my little sister Maria; she turned her life around and has never looked back. My other person is President Kagame; I love his strong head, he is cool and always smart. He also managed to unite a country that was at the verge of collapse and disunity. He managed to unify people, get his country back through instilling a culture or organization; so I just admire him. He commands power and authority. What is your greatest extravagance? I used to spend on shoes and at one time, I had 410 pairs of shoes but may be because I was always in the limelight. But now days, my extravagance are my kids because this is their time. What is your current state of mind? I am happy though not fulfilled yet. What do you consider the most overrated virtue? Gossip and social media are things we could use to our gain but we instead misuse them to preach hate, demeaning each other because at the end of the day, we all end up in one place. What does being powerful mean to you? Starting from the home, power comes with influence and with it, you may demand, oppress, and abuse which is why with power, many get lost and end up controlling and abusing it. The fact that someone has power makes them think that they can own anything not knowing that its misuse. On what occasion do you lie? I try not to tell lies because chances are that I will tell the truth unknowingly. Even when I tell lies, it doesn't sit down well with me. What do you most dislike about your appearance? Not anymore. Which living person do you most despise? I despise people in positions of power that abuse them. What is the quality you most like in a woman? The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom and understanding. What is the quality you most like in a man? Knowing God is the center of everything. What or who is the greatest love of your life? My boys are the reason my faith in God was renewed so I love them to bits. When and where were you happiest? Bringing my twins back from hospital after birth prematurely. Watching my first show upon return to the media early this year. The time I discovered that God has a purpose for me that I haven't yet tapped into. Which talent would you most like to have? I like to sing but not to perform on stage. I just want to sing songs that people just love listening to. If you could change one thing about yourself, what would it be? Anything that I want to change, I can change but not anymore. What do you consider your greatest achievement? I don't know if I have achieved it yet but for now, it is returning to TV and still be appreciated, relevant and loved. I still have an audience that loves and supports me. I have also achieved big steps with my boys. Where would you most like to live? I am attached to Uganda and it has also been good to me. I don't know how to stay anywhere else. What is your most treasured possession? I treasure life everyday. What do you regard as the lowest depth of misery? Sleeping on an empty stomach; especially the children. The lowest point for a youth is not having control of a situation when you could easily take control of it. What is your favorite occupation? TV is my first love and it allows me speak to many people spontaneously. What do you most value in your friends? Honesty and respect. Who are your favourite writers? John Grisham and biographies of different people; especially women. Which historical figure do you most identify with? Princess Diana was in a position of power but seated on fire with all the criticism and pressure. She disregarded all that and went ahead doing charity. I put her in the same category with Michael Jackson for the amount of power that he had. What is your greatest regret? One thing I regret is not using my position in the media to the fullest; for instance like giving back to society. How would you like to die? In my sleep after having good moments with my people. What is your motto? Make every day that you live meaningful, give it your best and leave the rest with God at the center.