Precarious work where people fill permanent job needs but are denied permanent employee rights seems to be on the increase in Namibia. Globally, these workers are subject to unstable employment, lower wages and more dangerous working conditions. They rarely receive social benefits and are often denied the right to join a union. Labour Resource and Research Institute (LaRRI) director Michael Akuupe in an interview said casual and precarious employment was in "first gear " in the country. He singled out the retail, agriculture and mining sectors as the biggest employers of precarious workers. "There is a movement in the mining sector to outsource activities which results in outsourcing human capital," he said. Akuupe reasoned that the growing number of workers in precarious jobs could only be addressed by reforming the country's labour laws to protect those who do not receive stable salaries or benefits like medical aid and social security. Trade union movements, said the LaRRI director, are not doing a good job of protecting workers and are failing to mobilise these workers to be unionised. He said LaRRI did not look at precarious employment in the country in isolation, but in a holistic view, noting that the latest Namibia Labour Force Survey indicates that informal sector employment accounts for 66% of employment. "The retail sector is worse off," Akuupe stated, referring to precarious employment. He attributed the "labour market deregulation" to the rise of precarious employment. "Those in the capital market are not regulated, and the narrative is to maximise profits at the expense of the labourer," he said. Akuupe also said labour laws were also not properly enforced to ensure safe and secure jobs for people, and that also led to the exploitation of workers. "Chinese businesses do not respect labour laws, and their workers as well as those of multinational retail shops, do not have a minimum wage. They do not want to be regulated, and to do as they please," he said. Those who are unemployed, in an "act of desperation", accept precarious employment, said Akuupe. "People need to live," he said, pointing to the current unemployment rate of 37%. Trade Union Congress of Namibia (Tucna) secretary general Mahongora Kavihuha said "casualisation" of workers in Namibia is "very high", which he attributed to government's pro-business approach. This, he added, was causing harm to the economic and social environments of the country. "These workers are being paid starvation wages and do not have social protection," Kavihuha said. He said the government could arrest the casualisation of workers by strengthening social dialogue where corrective action needs to be taken. Managing director of Africa Personnel Services (APS), Robert de Villiers, said the labour brokerage industry employed about 4 000 people, with APS accounting for 3 600 of employees. He said APS workers received all statutory benefits, including social security. "We have our sisters [nurses] doing on-site primary healthcare to prevent workers from sitting at clinics, and our health and safety inspectors ensure that our staff work in a safe environment. We also have the Ubuntu Pension fund for workers," he said. De Villiers disagreed that contract labour was on the rise in Namibia, saying from experience the need for labour-hire workers remained the "same over the years". "There are certain industries with seasonal demands that require the service of a labour-hire broker," he remarked. The APS boss noted that since 2013, when a recognition agreement with unions was signed, the gap between contract and normal employees became "insignificant". "The law also requires same pay for work of equal value so that one is not more advantaged than the other," he said, adding that the minimum rate payable to a labour-hire employee was N$10 per hour. A casual worker at Shoprite at Keetmanshoop, Estela Nghiwanwa (22), who spoke to The Namibian, said "it feels you are nothing" as a temporary worker. Working for the retail giant for the past two years as casual workers, she said, temporary workers are being subjected to long hours without adequate compensation. "For us, its no overtime and long hours of work," she stated. Nghiwanwa said limited employment opportunities leave her with no option but to hang on at her present job which she described as "unstable and insecure". "I am hoping that one day they would give me permanent worker status," she said. Shoprite branch manager Uvatera Kazobawe said more than 40 casual workers were currently employed at the branch, saying more still have to be recruited. A casual worker at Crazy Store, Keetmanshoop, Mark Witbooi, a 21-year-old Grade 10 dropout, said benefits were not an issue for him now. "For now, I am only happy to have a job to earn a living," he said. Crazy Store branch manager Seth Kooitjie said the shop normally hired casuals when staff went or leave, saying all workers were employed on a permanent basis. Witbooi was hired on a temporary basis as relief for workers who are on suspension, he explained.