The New Year is set to witness great movies from every corner of the industry. Joining the league of great movies to be screened from February 2018 is Abiodun Jimoh's directed, 'Wetin Women Want.' The movie is an expose on what women want in a relationship and the confusion that comes with understanding the needs of women. Few Nollywood movies veer into relationships and marriages as much as they swerve into sex and romance. 'Wetin Women Want' laces out what women want in a dramatic and romantic fashion. The movie stars are some of Nollywood's best in creating cinema magic that can get the audience glued to their screen till the final credits are rolled. Some of the notable actors in the movie are Daniel K Daniel, Katherine Obiang, Mercy Aigbe, Oge Okoye, Adaora Ukoh, Anthony Monjaro, and Jumoke Odetola. The new movie enjoys the credibility of award winning director, Abiodun Jimoh who has won two Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards in 2016 with the movie, 'Bisola Ofege' and 2017 with the movie, Somewhere in the Dark. Will 'Wetin Women Want' raise the award plaque numbers to three in 2018? Time will tell. Speaking on the new movie, the director, Mr Abiodun Jimoh, expressed excitement and optimism on the opportunities the movie has at the cinema. "We have made a very good movie. We have put into consideration the fans who will part with their hard earned money to watch this movie and we believe that we have created magic that can keep them glued to their seats at the cinemas till the end credits roll in", he said. While speaking on the distinguishing factor of the movie from other competitors, he said "Wetin Women Want' is not a regular Nollywood movie of romance but a movie that delves into managing relationship and depicting what women want in various fashion. "It opens in the cinemas from February 9, 2018 and I am promising that everyone who comes out to see this movie will be blown away", he concluded. The movie was produced by Seun Oloketuyi and directed by Abiodun Jimoh. It will finally open in major cinemas nationwide from February 9, 2018.