After over a year of operating from almost "nowhere", Rwenzururu Kingdom administration is planning to set up new offices at the proposed modern palace construction site in Kasese town. The Buhikira royal palace which hosted King Mumbere's residence, office and the Kingdom parliament house was raided on November 27, 2016 in a joint attack by the Uganda Peoples Defense Forces (UPDF) and the Uganda Police. King Mumbere was arrested in a raid that left over 100 people killed and all the grass thatched houses and shrines in the palace torched. About 170 suspected Royal Guards were also arrested. On November 26, the same forces had raided the Kingdom administrative officers in the heart of Kasese town. The administrative offices and the palace premises remain under tight guard of the police as they are still considered crime scenes. Mumbere and his co-accused were charged in the Jinja Magistrates court with several counts of terrorism, treason, murder, attempted murder, aggravated robbery among others. They have since been committed to High Court for trial though a hearing date is yet to be fixed. After the kingdom administration went into disarray following the arrest of the then acting Prime Minister, Johnson Thembo Kitsumbire to jointly be charged with King Mumbere, the cultural institution remained without any working cabinet. However, after being granted bail in early February 2017, King Mumbere whose movements are restricted to only Kampala, Wakiso and Jinja districts named a Prime Ministerial Commission to continue running the affairs of the kingdom until a full cabinet would be appointed. Now, after a year of operating without an office, the Prime Ministerial Commission has decided to build offices at the site where the multi-billion palace is supposed to be erected on the "Rwenzururu Royal Hill", north of Kasese town. Mr Gad Mbayahi, the Chairman of the Commission said that a meeting held in Kasese town early this week resolved to build a house at the site which will be used for offices because the subjects "are failing to locate the administration of the kingdom". "It has been resolved that we use the space that had been prepared for the modern palace on the hill to set up a building that will have offices. There will also be some cultural hats where clan leaders will perform their rituals to keep the culture of the Bakonzo moving," Mr Mbayahi said. He however declined to reveal the budget and the source of the funding for the new development. In 2011, Vice President Edward Ssekandi broke the ground for the construction of the modern palace, but since then there has not been any commencement of the construction as the cultural institution is faced with financial constraints.