Early this week, the country woke up to the news that singer Moses Sekibogo, alias Mowzey Radio, was battling for his life at Case Hospital. As expected, various social media accounts detailed the cause of his predicament before police confirmed that he had been injured in a bar brawl in Entebbe. According to the police spokesperson, Mr Emilian Kayima, two people: Mr George Egesa, the proprietor of De Bar, and his colleague Xavier Rukere, have been arrested in connection with the case. As investigations are being carried out, fans and the entertainment fraternity continue to speculate about the cause of Sekibogo's injury. Conflicts among entertainers that often result in violence are not new. While many go unreported to the authorities, social media and tabloids usually hint on some such these escapades. These instances are known to happen especially in bars. Take for instance, in 2015, singer Emmanuel Mayanja Hummertone, alias AK47, was found critically injured in the bathroom of a bar in Kansanga and died enroute Nsambya Hospital. No concrete arrests were made but it was believed that he had been beaten. Just last November another singer, Denis Oscar Mubuuke Galiwango Kamya, alias Dizzy Nuts, was knocked dead by unknown persons outside a bar in Kireka. Given the location where most of these incidents happen one cannot rule out the fact that entertainers are often under the influence of alcohol or other substances. Sources close to entertainers reveal that some artistes start fights among themselves or with fans. Such conduct is unacceptable to persons, who have a high stake in the moral stature of society. Given the growth of the entertainment industry, artistes influence society, especially the youth. They thus owe it to society to conduct themselves in an acceptable manner and respect the pedestal upon which they have been elevated. It is rather disappointing that some artistes have gone ahead to stage conflicts or acts of violence to generate publicity as their concerts draw near. The entertainment industry is a stakeholder in the future of the youth as many look up to them, they thus must be held accountable for their actions. The public and government arm that is mandated to cover this sector must not look on as artistes abuse their fame and popularity. Artistes must look beyond the profits their craft generates and think of themselves as builders of a better Uganda and behave as such. The issue: Artistes' conduct Our view: Artistes must look beyond the profits their craft generates and think of themselves as builders of a better Uganda and behave as such.