Regarded as one of the most educationally disadvantaged states in the country, reforms are sweeping through Katsina schools. According to a report by the Education Data, Research and Evaluation in Nigeria (EDOREN), a consortium supported by the UK Government, schools in Katsina face a particularly challenging environment due to limited availability of infrastructure and materials and "the social and political context in which teachers operate." The situation, over the years, has resulted to students sitting on the floor to write examinations and cramped boarding facilities. But a new dawn is beginning to emerge with the emergence of Aminu Masari as governor of the state. The governor, speaking to THISDAY recently, noted that when his administration came on board, they discovered that school dormitories that were designed for 72 pupils were accommodating 150 pupils. "I want you to imagine grown up girls between 15 to 18 cramped, two of them on one bed," he said. "It was the same for the boys. That was what we met on the ground. We had a deficiency of 1, 376 classes. "Some of the schools you cannot take your child into them. Why? Because the children of the people who are supposed to be looking after most of these institutions are attending private schools, either in far away Kaduna or even out of the country." He continued: "We met a situation where even the children of headmasters were attending private schools. This is what we met on ground." One of the first steps the Katsina Government took was to renovate and upgrade virtually all its boarding schools, both for boys and girls. "In terms of standard boarding school in this country, we are proud to say, we have provided the basic requirement and we are still doing more to decongest the classes and to decongest the dormitories," Masari told THISDAY. Focusing on girls Masari is also taking girl-child education seriously. When THISDAY visited Government Girls Science Secondary School, Ajiwa in Batagarawa LGA, thousands of girls were camped for a two week intensive learning programme. Their segregation from boys, according to Masari, is necessary due to the culture and religion of most Katsina communities. "We are not discriminating between the boys and the girls but we are more sensitive to the girls because of their nature and because we want to promote girl-child education," he said. "You know, the participation of women here is very low, so we are having deliberate policies in order to bring up the girls. Demographically in Katsina, the women are more in number than the boys." The secondary school in Ajiwa is a prime example of Masari's devotion to girl-child education. The school was constructed 30 years ago without boarding facilities, but it was later converted to a boarding school. Since it was constructed 30 years ago there had been no renovation on the school structures, the structures were in bad shape, the floors, the roofs and windows were all broken, despite being a female boarding school. When Masari came in, he visited the school himself and directed a complete rehabilitation of the school structures, from academic to hostel area. After the renovation, the governor found out that there was a need for additional facilities in the school especially as it relates to the hostels, where students were being choked. So he gave directives for additional construction of hostel blocks, kitchen, toilets and an additional classroom. Leading by example Another of the Masari administration's move to boost education in the state was to enact a policy that compels state public officials to send their children to schools within the state. According to Masari, the policy has, so far, been successful. "So far, it's very successful because everybody now has to make sure that the public schools his children are attending is given attention so that other children also benefit," he said. "When we were growing up, we attended school with children of the Emirs, district heads and the few ministers we had in Northern Nigeria; they were all in public schools and if you were better than them at that time you are better. So nobody discriminates against you whether the son of a farmer or a local trader. I think the policy is working." Family Support Nursery, Primary and Secondary School, which was conceived during the military regime, now educate some of Masari's children and that of several commissioners and permanent secretaries in the state. This development has led to the renovation and expansion of the school. Now, it has two computer centres equipped with 50 computers each and an e-library. A one storey L-shaped building housing eight classrooms has also been built. Other facilities added to the school include an NYSC lodge, a 300 capacity examination hall and three laboratories. Bearing fruits Masari's efforts in education appear to be bearing fruits. Chaperoned by the Director of Works, Ministry of Education, Nakano Lawal, THISDAY visited several schools which have either been renovated or built from scratch by the Masari administration. One of such projects is the Katsina College which was renovated and upgraded at the cost of N312m. Six blocks of six classrooms were fixed with furniture and the entire school was given a facelift. In total, 36 classrooms were added to the college's previous 54 classrooms. "You know before this administration came on board, population per class especially in Katsina College was 180 pupils per class but now, with the additional structures we put in place here, the capacity now is 80 pupils per class," Lawal told THISDAY. "The governor wants to at least decongest the schools because when he came in students were sitting on the floor to take their lessons and write their exams. How can you sit on the floor to write your exam? You cannot feel comfortable. How can you learn? So the essence is to expand the schools to make teaching and learning more conducive for students." Lawal noted that the government has, between 2016 to2017, spent N2.9b on the renovation and expansion of schools in the state, especially girls' boarding schools. "We have Government Girls Arabic Secondary School, Kabumu, where we spent N129m in renovation and expansion," he said. "We have Government Science Girls' Secondary School, Ajiwa where over N200m was spent. We have Government Boys' Science Secondary School, Patigarawa where over N200m was spent, and so many others." These renovations and expansions have resulted in better academic performances from students in the state. "Before this government came in the last administration was paying N800m for WAEC and NECO but only 10 per cent get five credit and above including Mathematics and English," Lawal said. "But with the renovation of schools and equipping of the schools this year (2017) alone 53 per cent of the students got five credits and above, which is an improvement." Solving the teacher problem One of the major problems of education in Katsina is the dearth of teachers in the classroom. When the Masari administration came onboard, it said it met a deficit of 15,000 instructors. In this regard, the government saw a need to increase teacher recruitment. In 2016, the governor employed 1,900 teachers for both primary and secondary schools who have since been posted to classrooms. In January 2018, during the swearing-in of a new Commissioner for Education, Masari pledged to recruit no fewer than 5,000 teachers into the state-owned primary schools to enhance the manpower in the education sector. Masari said that the teachers would be recruited within the first quarter of 2018. He revealed that teachers' welfare would also be enhanced to boost their morale for effective service delivery. "Teachers will be repositioned to provide quality service for the development of education," Masari said.