The minister of science and technology Dr Ogbonnaya Onu has said lack of venture capitalists has been the bane of Nigeria's economic development. Dr Onu, who disclosed this at the press briefing on the 2018 science, technology and innovation expo (Expo 2018) in Abuja yesterday, also said many industrialists in the country had failed to commercialise findings from Nigerian researchers. The minister said in the US and other advanced economies, venture capitalists had always been in close collaboration with researchers to take their findings to the market. He said without commercialising research findings the country's economic growth would not be impressive. But he said the federal government is now vigorously encouraging interactions between the researchers and inventors with a view to commercialising research results. Some of the research products are currently being commercialised, he added. He said: "I am happy to inform you that one of our research products has been the high-density nutrient biscuits produced by NASCO Food Ltd. Jos and is now available in the open Nigerian market for the use of both adults and children alike. "Similarly, some inventions in the area of health care delivery have been taken over for commercialization by the giant pharmaceutical company, May and Baker. The finished product will be in the market in few months' time. We expect many more to be commercialized before long." Dr Onu also disclosed that the number of registered patents in the country increased to 50 in 2017, underscoring the fact Nigeria is making progress in research and innovation. "This is a sign, no doubt, that Nigeria is moving in the right direction with regards to scientific innovation", he said. On the Expo 2018 coming up in March, where President Muhammadu Buhari will be the guest of honour, he said its main objective was to bring to the fore the capabilities of Nigerian scientists, engineers, inventors/innovators in contributing to sustainable development of Nigeria.