Concerned Professionals' Congress (CPC) has expressed support for the resolution of the Senate to hold a national security summit following the spate of killings and violence across the country recently. The group stated that the strategic needs of the Nigerian military should be urgently addressed as the country's last line of defence. The group Chief Media Strategist, Mr. Emeka Nwankpa, who spoke at the sidelines of a public appraisal by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin, of the Operation Safe Corridor programme being implemented for repentant Boko Haram ex-fighters which took place recently at the Defence Headquarters in Abuja, told journalists that the planned security summit could not have come at a better time when the Nigerian military has left none in doubt about its commitment to the security, stability, unity and peace of the country. CPC noted that the CDS-driven de-radicalisation programme for repentant Boko Haram fighter had significantly shrunk the ranks of the terrorists in the North-east part of the country, contending that modern warfare principles as exhibited by the Defence Headquarters has successfully expanded the quest for peace and order in the country through the deliberate application of measures that do not bear the force of arms. According to the group, "Now is the auspicious moment for the entire Nigerian people to take full ownership of their conflicts thereby working assiduously towards creating the necessary climate for their resolution to sustain peace, engender growth and promote rapid development in every part of the country." Nwankpa, in his address, said: "Africa and in fact, the entire black race, has waited long enough for Nigeria as a sleeping giant to wake up and take its leading position. The world can no longer wait for Nigeria. There is therefore no time other than now for Nigerians across board to quickly close rank and confront issues that threaten their collective survival and destiny as a people. "Mutual intolerance is at the root of the current killings. We therefore support the Senate on the National Security Summit. The deliberations should cover all the grey areas. How come our people are no longer their brother's keeper but their brother's killers? This must stop! All through history, it is the people that built and worked for the greatness of nations." He further stated that "we need peace, growth and development but it takes the deliberate and determined efforts of the people to do it. Our history books are replete with stories of very strong and flourishing old empires and kingdoms whose influence stretched far beyond. How did they do it? We should be doing the same today if not more because the situation has become even more scaring." Arguing that the military alone cannot completely curb national security threats, the group therefore urged Nigerians to continue to forge harmony through credible platforms such as community groups and associations to discuss and evolve strategies to complement the efforts of the Nigerian military in combating threats to the country.