Philadelphia — Jubilee and Nasa supporters living in the US have sharply differed on the swearing-in of Nasa principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. The oath taking is scheduled for Tuesday. CHAOS While Nasa supporters expressed their support for the swearing-in and the establishment of people's assemblies as a way of bringing about electoral justice, their Jubilee counterparts condemned the move as an act of deviance that was likely to plunge the country into chaos. "The Kenyan community in Diaspora that demands real democracy in Kenya supports the creation of People's Assemblies and the swearing-in of Raila Odinga who won the August 8, 2017 election. These moves will take power from corrupt cartels and place it into the people's hands where it constitutionally belongs," A statement issued by Nasa USA Diaspora Team said. Jubilee supporters on the other hand released a statement saying: "This clearly is a calculated move by the opposition coalition Nasa to cause chaos in the country and neither the government nor Kenyans of good will should allow it to take place. This is the reason why many of us in Diaspora oppose it and want to distance ourselves from it". 'ILLEGAL' Jubilee supporters took issue with Nasa supporters in the UK, who recently went public in support of the swearing-in. They said it was wrong for the Diaspora to support "an illegal move meant to divide Kenyans further". "As Kenyans from all the 51 US states, we wish to categorically affirm that we subscribe to the rule of law. NRM is proscribed under Kenyan laws. All its concepts and ideologies, which espouse rising up against a constitutionally established government are in contravention of the laws of Kenya," the statement signed by Eng. John Kamau of Phoenix, Az. Said. ELECTORAL JUSTICE Nasa supporters argued that electoral justice was necessary for a stable, fair, united and prosperous Kenya. "We also believe in an open, inclusive, transformational and people-driven political dialogue that will ensure every vote counts. "We are aware that the people voted for Raila Amollo Odinga to be president on August 8, 2017, but the corrupt cartels under Jubilee through the IEBC manipulated and altered the results to show otherwise," said the Nasa statement issued by Barack Wekulo, Ben Kipng'etich, Salim Mngolia and Dan Ogindo. It was issued in New Jersey. Jubilee supporters said they also supported national dialogue but under established constitutional structures, by elected bodies or through a national referendum. "No one should coerce Kenyans to disaffiliate constitutional order to reward a bully. This happened in 2007, when the international community erroneously coerced Kenyans to create an unconstitutional post of Prime Minister to reward leaders of Genocide," the Jubilee statement said.