The Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has urged the federal government not to go ahead with the full implementation of the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM), which would liberalise the region's airspace for airlines registered in the continent. The operators noted that while the idea might be noble on paper, there was a need for government not to lose sight of the facts and the dangers of the direct impact of the decision on the Nigerian economy and Nigeria as a whole and the future of the country's youths. AON Chairman, Capt. Nogie Meggison in a statement said: "We are concerned that the timing is not right as there are several unresolved issues and challenges being faced by Nigerian aviation that will ultimately undermine the perceived gains of this treaty that might be an illusion for our beloved country." Meggison enumerated the challenges the Nigerian aviation was facing that would now allow the sector to benefit from the liberalised African airspace. "The basic issue of free movement of people and trade is an integral aspect of the declaration that will go a long way to determine the fairness of the SAATM project. Sadly, it is a well-known fact that Nigerians require over 34 visas to travel within Africa alone. This is an issue that first needs to be addressed. Before opening the skies, open the visas," AON said. The body therefore called on the government to come out with a clear policy that would position Nigerian airlines to take full advantage of the open skies. AON said that Nigerian airlines are exposed to high bank interest rates of 28 percent compared to access to cheap funds provided and guaranteed by the government of most African carriers at a maximum of 2per cent. Nigerian airlines pay VAT while most African carriers don't pay VAT both in their various countries as well as here in Nigeria. This is already a deficit of 5per cent on a small margin industry from the start for Nigerian Airlines. "Airlines in Nigeria don't have access to forex. We only get allocation per percentage of our bids which takes an average of six months. Most of the African carriers are subsidised and being funded by their government. Nigerian airlines are at a disadvantage to other African Airlines that are largely government owned and heavily subsidised. For instance, South African Airways got on the average about $350m yearly in the past decade; Kenya Airways got about $600m in 2016, while RwandAir has never published its financial results for over a decade. Yet they will be competing against Nigerian airlines with private finance at 28 percent," AON said. The operators lamented that Nigerian airlines were subjected to multiple charges, taxes, levies and fees. "On the average, we pay about 37 different charges that come under the guise of statutory levies and taxes to sustain staff strength of about 18,000 staff of the various government agencies compared to most African carriers who pay a fraction in their countries to support a staff strength of less than 500," the statement said. They noted that the charges around Africa are not uniform across board and urged government should ensure all the taxes are uniform before the implementation of the Open skies. "For instance, when we fly to some African countries they charge us heavy landing fees in excess of $5000 - $6000. The same countries subsidise their local operators who pay $200 for the same service. But when they fly into Nigeria they pay a mere $500, the same as our local carriers. "Airlines in Nigeria pay high prices for JetA1 due to high taxes compared to some other countries where VAT and taxes in JetA1 have been abolished to their local carriers and some of them have local production of subsidised fuel," AON said. The operators also noted that the threat of non-African investors abusing the open skies by setting up airlines since there is no way of ascertaining their shareholder structure and how to ascertain whether they are Africans, thereby diverting investment from Nigeria into neighbouring countries with the Nigerian market as the target.