Kampala — As hundreds of Makerere University students celebrated completing their studies at the country's prestigious institution yesterday, some were contemplating what awaited them in the labour market. Already, Ms Resty Nabatanzi, a Bachelor of Arts with Education graduate, said she had applied in more than 30 schools since she completed studies in June last year but none had invited her for an interview. "I did History and Economics. I am excited about this graduation but I don't know how long this excitement will last. I have applied in many schools. I don't know the count. I know they are more than 30 schools. They keep promising me to wait when the term starts," Ms Nabatanzi shared with Daily Monitor yesterday after her name was read out among the 14,085 graduands that will be conferred upon diplomas, degrees, masters and Phds in the course of this week. However, Dr Betty Ezati, a lecturer, advised the graduates to spread their nets wide in other fields using the skills they have acquired while at the university. "The teachers will always be needed. They are also trained to be flexible and can work in other areas," Dr Ezati said in an interview. Makerere University Chancellor, Dr Ezra Suruma, applauded the parents and guardians who have supported their children to complete their education and appealed to the graduates to use the knowledge they have acquired to make better the communities they live in through creativity and innovation. To the agriculturalists, he warned that the country was depending on them for improved production and protection of the environment and he also told the teachers to be the foundation of the country's morals. "A country without education and without morality is doomed to extinction," Dr Suruma said. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Barnabas Nawangwe, announced among other changes, that they will be marking students' scripts centrally to minimise reports of delayed or lost marks. "Be critical thinkers and not mere job seekers... You might stumble and fall but always have the courage to stand up and try again with dignity," Prof Nawangwe advised. Yesterday had the first batch of the 68th graduation with students from the college of Natural Sciences, College of Agriculture and College of Education awarded degrees and certificates.