Benue — Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Monday gave reasons why he is condemning the atrocities of headsmen and Miyetti Allah group, stating that he has to do so in order not to be accused of complicity to the heinous killings of Benue people. He said there was no going back on the anti-open grazing law no matter the pressure and blackmail in some quarters. Ortom who disclosed this at a stakeholders' meeting held at Government House, Makurdi lamented that the federal government has turned against Benue people at a time that they are yearning for protection He stated that he promised to rule with the fear of God and integrity, adding that he has been warned by many people not to talk too much on the Benue killings. "Silence means consent and that is why I cannot keep quiet despite the pressures on me. It is my people that are being killed because of the plans of the headsmen to take over Benue as their territory rather than for grazing." He said he saw the attack coming and warned but those who are to provide security did not and have turned around to accuse him that he is over dramatising the crises. He disclosed that the anti-open grazing law is still effective and more headsmen have been arrested for violating the law. While calling on the people to remain calm and peaceful, the governor disclosed that the plans of the invaders is to provoke and make the people react for the crises to escalate. He added that the killings were about taking over land. The governor said the security in the nation was still grossly inadequate to secure the borders. He challenged security agencies particularly the Directorate of State Service (DSS) not to waste time in prosecuting those claimed to have been arrested as Islamic fighters to serve as deterrent to others. This is just as it has been revealed that another aattack on Agatu Local Government Area of the State by suspected Fulani herdsmen is eminent. The governor described as 'shameless', those alleging that the state government is sponsoring over 6,000 militia, maintaining that it was a mere diversionary tactic from the main issue confronting the state and nation at this time. "We are now faced with issue of 80,000 internally displaced persons, IDPs camped in Daudu, Gbajimba, Utsav, Anyiin and Ugba. In his presentation, Second Republic Minister of Power and Steel Wantaregh Paul Unongo, insisted that President Muhammadu Buhari must come to the state and condole with the people, noting that it is not the victims he would visit but those who are inflicted with injuries. He added that it was for this reason he refused to be part of the delegation to the president. "You must stand by your governor and make new friends who will help you because you are a threatened specie. We need respect because we have done a lot of things to deserve this," Unongo said. Former Minister of State for Education Prof. Jerry Agada, raised the alarm of a large influx of suspected Fulani herdsmen into Agatu, disclosing that the Ardo of Doma has told the people that they would come into the area and visit mayhem on them. A one time Ambassador of Nigeria to Canada and also Mexico, Ambassador Iyorwuese Higher, said the Benue Valley is at war and that the federal government which is empowered to protect the people has failed to do so, adding that what is happening now calls for urgent restructuring of Nigeria to pave the way for state police. "What is happening now is accentric warfare. I had told the governor that there was an impending genocide and it is here with us. Even if we do not have arms, the women should hold their pistols and mortals. The youths should hold bows and arrows for self defence so that we would not allow the genocide to happen to us again. The leader of Igede socio-cultural group, Onmiyi Igede Ode Enyi, said: "We are not mincing words in giving the governor and the traditional institution two weeks ultimatum to withdraw from Northern Governors' Forum as well as the Northern Traditional Rulers Council. We are for restructuring and can even secede as a country if this killings continue. Former National Assembly member, Senator Joseph Waku, told the governor to die for the people and be a hero, averring that he will conquer. He said asking President Muhammadu Buhari to come to the state to condole with the people is irrelevant 'because we do not need him but he needs us and God will fight for us'.