With the letter from former President Olusegun Obasanjo, advising President Muhammadu Buhari not to seek reelection causing political uproar in the polity ace-comedian and UN ambassador, I Go Dye, has written his own letter to the President, equally advising him to leave now , especially as the ovation is still loud for him. I Go Dye who spoke to E-daily, on his combustible letter said he had actually planned to release his own letter before the OBJ's since last December, but the Yuletide activities and preparation for the burial of his late PA held him up. In his usual version of not mincing words and not minding whose horse is gored, the humour merchant pours out his heart in his letter to the President, charging him to be a hero rather than a villain in the history books of the nation. The letter reads in part, "A passionate appeal to Excellency,President Muhammadu Buhari,not to contest the 2019 Presidential elections and a clarion call to all tradition leaders,Ex-presidents,diplomatic communities, elder statesmen,professional bodies,entertainers and Nigerian youths to lay their voices to end political recycling, because a future bequeathed to Nigerian youths today, will be the best legacy." "Sir,with profound respect to your personality do I write this letter. Please allow me the privilege to politely take you through some of the best moments of your life as a youth. I have questioned my fears when I looked back at our history, as a people and the many opportunities that has been denied the youths of my generation.The youths of today are grieving everyday, because so much has been taken away from them." "They have been denied the right to good life,quality education,freedom,justice, sustainable means of livelihood and above all, the freedom to leadership. These opportunities were given in the past,remarkably many great Nigerians including your humble self,enjoyed the very best from our great country. How come my generation has been short changed and left in dissolution and uncertainty?" As highlighted then, most of the issues facing the country,is still killing the ordinary Nigerians today,no electricity,no food,no shelter,no employment and many other social problems. Let me recall, previously I wrote you a letter titled: logic and reasons with out guns,I spoke on some issues affecting us as a people.If we don't change our political process,sooner than later, the youths will demand for it,I just pray it's not too late. Sir,I am not against your political ambition,neither am I opposing your interest but I am of the view that it's better to leave the stage when the ovation is loud. Honestly speaking,there is nothing new for you to conquer,the only sacrifice that will bring more honour to your personality, is for you to lead the process of advancing and transferring political leadership to the youths.