President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday assured Nigerians that the rising attacks on communities by herdsmen will soon be brought under control by security forces deployed to the vulnerable areas across the country. The National Economic Council (NEC) had last week set up a committee to be headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to end the killings by killer herdsmen in the country. Suspected killer herdsmen have killed over 200 people across the country this year alone. According to a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, the president made the remarks when he received the board of directors of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group at the presidential villa yesterday. According to Buhari, the unfortunate incident of attacks, which had resulted in loss of lives and properties, had already brought sorrow and hardship on many Nigerians, with the government deeply affected. The president also said his administration remains resolute and focused on delivering on the three-pronged promises of securing the lives and properties of Nigerians, halting the pillage of the economy by corrupt public officials and creating employment opportunities for the youths. He said the initial economic challenge posed by recession was already dwindling, with the economy smarting out and posting better results on falling inflation rates, higher foreign reserve and better ranking on ease of doing business. Buhari said, "If you look critically into the 2018 budget, we have already taken into account key issues of more stable electricity, construction of roads and rails, and the airport concession". The president said the government will work more to accelerate and increase momentum in agriculture, power, gas, manufacturing and processing, while commending the Chinese government for its support in improving infrastructure in Nigeria. "We send our gratitude to the Chinese for all their support to Nigeria. Since Independence, no country has helped our country on infrastructural development like the Chinese. In some projects, the Chinese help us with 85 per cent payment, and soft loans that span 20 years. No country has done that for us," he said. President Buhari said the government will continue to strengthen its relationship with the NESG, especially in integrating its recommendations into policies that will improve the livelihood of all Nigerians. In his remark, the chairman of the NESG Board of Directors, Kyari Abba Bukar, commended the government for the "pragmatic approach" in engaging with citizens of Niger Delta region which had translated into steady rise in oil production. "Your Excellency, we salute your courage in providing support to the states that have had fiscal challenges. We recognise that without the intervention of the Presidency, many state governments would have been unable to pay salaries last year," he said.