Following the new age in music in Nigeria, many artistes have forgotten that playing an instruments vital to be a good musician. But how many artistes can perform with a live band? ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM writes. Sitting at a musical concert organised by a popular entertainment outfit, with some big and upcoming artistes heralding the event, everyone present would think they would get the beat of entertainment. The sound from the DJ could tell that his speakers are not just the usual one but maintains the diaphragms of the electro magnetic movement of the songs he is playing. The time for artistes performance came and it was a sour moment. None could perform with a live band including some known popular artistes. As this was going on, they signaled the DJ to use their CDs to cushion the continued embarrassment they have brought upon themselves. When the DJ started playing, it was a crazy moment everyone could tell they are not ready yet to attain that height they dream of. Also, the just concluded CAF Awards in Ghana shows that not all entertainers can play with a Live band. When Tiwa Savage was called upon to perform, it was like the dullest moment and experience one could get from a highly respectable artistes like her. Her dancers which involves Kaffy were not into the gig as it used to, because the synchronisation between them was not anything to write home about. When Wizkid came to support her, the energy could be felt, alas, not for long. The event is not the one he can play "show me your bum bum," because of the caliber of guests. He opted for "Ojuelegba" which is an anthem across the world, but yet the energy couldn't be felt because it was a life band. Many would say they have collected their appearance fee and what not, but the truth is, to really break that jinx and match oneself with international artistes, knowing how to play at least an instrument is vital. Upcoming Artistes: The most painful thing today is that everyone want to sing, and not everyone want to learn the rudiments involved in singing. Everyone today believe they are talented ,but when you listen to their songs it is just whack! A musician is different from anyone who just delved into the industry to sing. Little wonder what is churned out in the market are songs that aren't evergreen. Upcoming artistes must go back and learn how to play musical instruments to enable them to be able to choose the kind of sounds they want for their songs. Whenever a person who knows what it entails to do music drops a song, it is always different from the usual sounds in the streets. Take for instance , Dare Art Alade , he don't just drop song, he drops evergreen, and when on stage or in the studio, one could tell it is not just Uhuru. His stage appearance is unmatchable because he plays the instrument and he could control them at will. Former Psquare duo, Femi and Seun Kuti, Cobhams Asuquo, Asa, GT da guitarman,Nneka, Sound Sultan , Ara, Bez, Aramide, Flavour , Praiz and few others are great musicians. Talent is can never be bought even with all the money in the world. Musicians must go back to the drawing board and rehears who to play with a lifeband. Many ambassadors of a popular company have embarrassed themselves, the company and fans because they can't play with live band. After their performances, it could tell from their faces that they need to go and do more. Music is not just a feeling, it goes beyond that. It has to do with the heart, soul, mind, and even the mood. Playing with life band improves one's ability to sustain when the need be. Musicians (artistes) must learn this from now on because it is important in ensuring their progress for the future. I tried this ancient herb to improve my sex-life and it actually worked, it is an upgrade for me and madam's happiness.