For those interested in sounds, rhythms and cultural events, Africa offers a number of them annually. For music from across the continent, do not miss the Sauti za Busara (February 8 to 11), at the Old Fort and Forodhani Gardens, in Stone Town, Zanzibar, Tanzania. The 19th edition of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival will be celebrated from March 23 to 24, at the Cape Town International Convention Centre in South Africa. The festival is famous for its star-studded line up of local and international jazz artists from around the world. The Harare International Festival of the Arts is set for May 1 to 6, in Harare, Zimbabwe. Famed for showcasing the best local and international artistes, the festival features visual arts, music, theatre, street and dance performances. The 21st edition of the Gnaoua World Music Festival -- June 21 to 24 -- will be held in the 18th century coastal town of Essaouira in Morocco. Gnaoua musicians (descendants of slaves from sub-Saharan Africa), who play their ancient rhythms and traditions, are joined by artists from the rest of the world. The Biennale of Contemporary African Art will be held in Dakar, Senegal from May 3 to June 2. Known as Dak'Art, the exhibition is of contemporary work by artists from all over the world. The Fes Festival of World Sacred Music will run from May 12 to 29. Held in Fes, the medieval, political and intellectual capital of Morocco, sacred music from around the world is performed in ancient palaces and garden courtyards, among other venues. The 12th edition of the MTN Bushfire festival will be held from May 25 to 27, in the Malkerns Valley in Swaziland. Activities include music, dance, visual arts, poetry, theatre and film. The AfrikaBurn festival will run from April 23 to 29, in Tankwa Karoo, South Africa. Participants will create their own art work like burning structures, costume, performance, theme camps, music and mutant vehicles, among others. The Zanzibar International Film Festival, also known as Festival of the Dhow Countries, will take place from July 7 to 15, in Stone Town in Zanzibar. ZIFF, one of the largest multi-disciplinary art and cultural events in Africa, is dedicated to films, music and different forms of art, culminating in an awards night on the final night of the festival. The Lake of Stars Music Festival will hold its 15th anniversary celebration from September 28 to 30, on the shores of Lake Malawi. Malawian musicians play alongside visiting artists.