Controversial Kenyan rapper CMB Prezzo's Tanzanian girlfriend Amber Lulu is in trouble. This after President John Magufuli's government cracked the whip on socialites and video vixens who post raunchy or semi-nude photos on their social media pages, especially Instagram. According to Assistant Minster for Information, Culture and Arts, Ms Juliana Shonza, all socialites and video vixens fond of posting nude pictures of themselves online have been put on a checklist and will face the full force of the law if found guilty. "Going as per the memo I issued in December last year, we are on the lookout for anyone who dares post an inappropriate picture on Instagram or elsewhere. We know their handles and we will deal with them individually. We doing this because we have to protect our morals and values as a society," Shonza was quoted by Mwananchi newspaper. Amber Lulu, who's been dating Prezzo for a year now, became famous in Tanzania because of her constant nude posts on Instagram. Lulu is said to be among several socialites who have been summoned for questioning by Ms Shonza. The list includes the bootylicous Jane Rimoy, popularly known as Sanchi, who is a friend of Kenyan socialite Vera Sidika. Ms Shonza has already set the ball rolling by banning socialite Pretty Kind for six months from posting anything on her social pages and not to feature in any entertainment, marketing or promotion projects. The idea was started off by President Magufuli last year. Talk to Nairobi News : Facebook || Twitter(@Nairobi_News) || Telegram: @nairobinews || Instagram: @nairobi_news || Snapchat: @nairobinews || Email: [email protected] || Phone: 0719 038 309 Latest Stories Uhuru watches as Zuma is booed - PHOTOS President Uhuru Kenyatta watched in amusement as his South Africa counterpart President Jacob Juma was booed on Saturday by ANC members. The... More Widow gets Sh4m after husband was clobbered to death by city askaris A widow whose husband was clobbered to death by four Nairobi city askaris has been awarded Sh4 million. More Love triangle: Cop run over by car after finding his city wife with colleague After months away from his family, a police officer returned home only to be confronted by a nightmare. More Ababu Namwamba gives a glimpse of his palatial house - PHOTOS Former Budalang'i lawmaker Ababu Namwamba does not seem to be feeling the pinch of losing his parliament seat. More How State House 'influence' caused rift between Sonko and Igathe Friday's announcement by Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe that he was resigning was the culmination of multi-billion shillings tender wars and the... More Did police execute four men or were they deadly Kawangware criminals? Four men were gunned down by police in Kawangware on Monday night on suspicion of robbery with violence. More Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus NEWS ENTERTAINMENT LIFE SPORT BLOG MULTIMEDIA News Entertainment Business Living Videos Photos Blogs Sports Jobs Copyright 2018 Nation Media Group. All rights reserved.