Television siren Joy Doreen Biira appears to have put her news anchoring days behind her after taking up a new job with Kenya's Ministry of Mining. Ms Biira is reported to have made the transition from a news anchor to her new position of Advisor, Strategic Communications at the ministry towards the end of last year. The Ugandan journalist started her career as an unpaid volunteer/intern and was later employed as a week day Morning Show co-host at NBS Television with Shawn Kimuli, broadcasting at the network's headquarters in Kampala, Uganda. In 2008 she relocated to Kenya to work as the weekend Breakfast Show at Capital FM. She later joined Standard Media Group in January 2012 as a news anchor and reporter with KTN. STOLEN CAR But her stocks in the media started falling in December 2016 when it was reported that her car had been stolen from the Standard Group premises along Mombasa road. Days later the car was recovered in Kisumu and Aaron Obudho Ochieng, an editor at Standard Media Group, charged with the theft of the Sh2.8 Mercedes Benz. But the case would take a strange twist when Mr Ochieng confessed that the car's disappearance was a planned theft. In his statement to the police, Mr Ochieng claimed that he and Biira had agreed to have the vehicle reported as missing in order to sell it and use the proceeds to purchase another vehicle. Talk to Nairobi News : Facebook || Twitter(@Nairobi_News) || Telegram: @nairobinews || Instagram: @nairobi_news || Snapchat: @nairobinews || Email: [email protected] || Phone: 0719 038 309 Latest Stories Woman's marriage proposal goes terribly wrong A video showing a woman being handed the ultimate public embarrassment after her fiancé declined her marriage proposal has gone viral on... More Man, wife, three children burnt to death at home Five family members - including a man, his wife and their three children - were found burnt to death early on Tuesday... More UK party leader dumps lover for racial slur on Royal family The leader of the anti-immigration UK Independence Party announced Monday that he had broken up with his socialite girlfriend after she made... More Gangster 'nuns' steal Sh3.5m from forex bureau Two robbers disguised as nuns on Sunday raided a forex bureau in Karen, Nairobi, and stole money amounting to Sh3.5 million in... More Sonko seeks to freeze payment of Sh60 billion to creditors The Nairobi County government has gone to court to temporarily stop all payments to its creditors amounting to nearly Sh60 billion. More Matiang'i reveals who'll fund painting of school buses yellow Acting Cabinet Secretary for Education Fred Matiang'i has said that part of the Sh29.5 billion released to schools by the government should... More Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. blog comments powered by Disqus NEWS ENTERTAINMENT LIFE SPORT BLOG MULTIMEDIA News Entertainment Business Living Videos Photos Blogs Sports Jobs Copyright 2018 Nation Media Group. All rights reserved.