The Nigerian Army has announced that troops fighting in the North-east have recorded another victory against Boko Haram insurgents in continuation of Operation Deep Punch 2, as 107 terrorists have been killed and regrettably, three soldiers and one civilian lost their lives during the onslaught. This was disclosed by the Director Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Sani Kukasheka Usman who disclosed that so far, the troops have neutralised over 50 Boko Haram terrorists, destroyed and captured high calibre arms and ammunition, especially in the Lake Chad general area. "Troops yesterday, January 8, 2018, cleared Boko Haram terrorists in Metele village, Tumbun Gini and Tumbun Ndjamena. During the clearance operations, Boko Haram terrorists abandoned the area in disarray leaving behind livestock, large quantity of foodstuff, motorcycles and donkeys. "Also in Metele however, the terrorists attempted to attack troops in harbour, but this was stiffly resisted with heavy casualty on Boko Haram terrorists. Troops neutralised over 57 of them, destroyed gun trucks and other equipment," Usman said in a statement made available to THISDAY on Tuesday. He said the gallant troops in the on-going Operation Lafiya Dole also discovered and destroyed terrorists' logistics base at Tumbu Ndjamena which held stocks of fish, foodstuffs, fuel and motorcycles. "Troops also captured one Anti-Aircraft Gun, 116 rounds of 12.7mm ammunition with metal links, four Ak-47 rifles, 57 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition (Special), two Light Machine Guns, two Rocket Propelled Grenade 7 (RPG 7) Tubes, with one RPG Bomb and two already primed 36 Hand Grenades," Usman said. Other recovered items include one Small Solar panel with a Gionee mobile phone, one Holy Qur'an, six Hadith Books, as well as five gun trucks, which were also destroyed. "Sadly, four of our troops paid the supreme price while nine others were wounded in action. Specifically, a Boko Haram vehicle laden with Improvised Explosive Devices rammed into an MRAP (Mine Resistant Ambush Protected) vehicle which exploded killing three soldiers, a Civilian JTF and wounding the other soldiers. The bodies of the gallant and wounded heroes have been evacuated to 8 Division Medical Services and Hospital, Monguno," Usman also said in the statement.