Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has concluded his Working Visit to the World Economic Forum (WEF) 2018 in Davos, Switzerland by declaring Team South Africa's participation in this global gathering a "successful pilgrimage". Deputy President Ramaphosa said at the conclusion of his visit that he had been encouraged by the positive interest shown in South Africa by international investors who wished the country well as it entered a new era. He said the Forum had left South Africa with "confidence in the confidence" expressed by the investor community. Deputy President Ramaphosa said by dealing with impediments to growth including corruption, dysfunction in state-owned enterprises and regulatory uncertainty, South Africa would position itself as an attractive destination. The Deputy President reiterated his welcoming of the Commission of Inquiry into state capture and corruption established by President Jacob Zuma. In tandem with action on the part of the criminal justice system, the Commission would help the country "go to the depths" of corruption that has affected state-owned enterprises. On his last day in Davos Deputy President held bilateral meetings with Danish Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rassmussen and British Prime Minister Theresa. Deputy President Ramaphosa gave a number of international television interviews and addressed an international press conference where he was supported by Minister in the Presidency for Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Jeff Radebe; Minister of Trade and Industry Rob Davies; Minister for Economic Development Ebrahim Patel, and Minister of Finance Malusi Gigaba. Deputy President commended the ministerial delegation - which included Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Maite Nkoana-Mashabane and Minister of Public Works Nathi Nhleko - on their intensive engagements on WEF platforms and in discussions with counterparts in government, as well as with investors. Deputy President Ramaphosa commended Team South Africa for flying the flag with confidence at Davos and called on all South Africans to sustain the positive mood in the country with hard work and partnership that will unite South Africans and improve economic conditions . Deputy President Ramaphosa arrives in Johannesburg tomorrow, Friday 26 January 2018. Issued by: The Presidency