The Chairman of the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum, Mr. Moses Siloko Siasia has berated YBNL boss, Olamide Adedeji, known by his stage name Olamide for his latest song 'science song' which promote drug abuse, especially among youth. The former Bsyelsa State Governorship Candidate also called on the regulatory bodies to ban the song and ensure that Olamide is dissuade from releasing similar song in the future. Siasia in a statement by his media office, noted that the song is laced with lyrics that not only encouraged the intake of hard drug but shamelessly misinform the listeners on how to mix illicit substances. "This is aside from the fact that this artiste eulogised users of hard drugs. This is a dangerous trend that must be stop now before it destroys the sanity of our society. It is disheartening that Nigeria is already battling with the effect of hard drug in the society and its accompanying vices. More than 40% of Nigerian youth are said to be involved in one form of drug abuse or the other. Recently, the Nigerian senate noted that over three million bottles of codeine syrup are consumed daily in Kano and Jigawa States, sadly among female Nigerian youths, including married women". Siasia encouraged Olamide to use his popularity and influence to promote good behaviours, especially among the youths. Siasia said that music is a powerful tool that can be use for social goods and to rally the youth towards a collective goal. "The law enforcement agencies, especially the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA should interrogate Olamide and if he is suspected to be a promoter of hard drug, he should face the music. However, I want to believe Olamide needs help and the NDLEA should be able to educate him on the harmful effect of drug abuse to our society and his fans," Mr. Siasia also called on National Broadcasting Commission, NBC and Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria, PMAN to educate entertainers and support them in promoting societal values through their works.