A popular Rift Valley songbird whose dreams to pursue secondary education was curtailed by poverty has been sponsored to return to class nearly 10 years after dropping out. Fancy Chepkorir, who goes by the stage name Marion, composed a song in praise of Jubilee Party which hit the airwaves during the electioneering period and thrust her into the limelight. She will now join Isinya Adult Education Centre to pursue secondary education after nominated MP Gideon Keter offered to pay fees and personal expenses throughout her four-year journey. The mother of four - two pairs of twins - who dropped out in form two due to lack of fees, could not hide her joy saying she had been given a second chance in life. "I am so happy and cannot thank Hon. Keter enough. I will work so hard in school," said Chepkorir of Kibendi Tai fame. 'KIBENDI TAI' "Marion sang a good number for Jubilee Party and after learning of her shortcomings, I took the initiative of sponsoring her back to school," said Mr Keter, adding that he is committed to helping Kenyans with great potential to accomplish their dreams. When Nation called her, the artiste was finalising preparations to travel to school on Thursday. Chepkorir said she has plans in place of how her young children will be taken care of while she is away in school. She also plans to join them during the weekends. In 2017, the disturbed mother of four, having lacked support from their father, decided that they would literally "eat her talent". Without a job, she used money she had accumulated from selling eggs to record a campaign song Kibendi Tai (Moving forward) in July 2017, that urges the Kalenjin community to remain united and chart one political course. ELECTRIFYING PERFORMANCE Unlike several musicians, who have recorded tens of albums without gaining fame, Chepkorir burst into the limelight with only her second single. It is this song that saw her brushing shoulders with the high and mighty. On several occasions during electioneering period, she shared a podium and even held President Uhuru Kenyatta's hand. All this time her infectious smile, agility, good use of stage and appealing gestures disguised her unfulfilled dreams of getting an education. Thankfully, Mr Keter caught wind of Chepkorir's predicament and came through for her.