You first saw Tinah Tesie' on The Loud and City show on NTV. She currently hosts Log in Extra at the same television station and is the public relations officer at Club Play. This, in addition to running her own production house, Dots Brand House Limited, which she launched last year. Quick Talk caught up with the jolly 26-year-old last week at Club Play. What is your real name, Tinah? I am Christine Kyomujuni [Starts spelling it. Quick Talk hands her a pen and notebook to write it. She does so in neat capper case letters]. So, [smiling] my swag name, Tinah, comes from Christine, while Tesie comes from my late father's name, Mweteise. Nice handwriting. And you speak so fast! Oh really! [Laughs] But I am paid to talk. That's my job. Well said. So, how would you describe yourself in one statement? I am a God-fearing, hard and smart working, very independent Mukiga girl from Kabale. My dad was a Mukiga, my mum was Rwandese. I speak fluent Rukiga and I host Bakiga Nation. Where were you born and raised then? My dad was a town mayor in Lyantonde; so, we were all born there. I was raised there but because they passed on when I was still very young, it was a lot of moving up and down. I lived in Mbarara for some time and then later, Kampala. Oh dear; do you have any memories of them? I don't have memories of my mum at all. For my dad, I have very faint memories of him. I don't even remember doing anything with my mum. People tell me I look like her. I see her pictures and wish I had known her a little longer. I indeed look like her only that she was a darker version of me. Life must have been rather challenging without them. [Instantly] Life was tough. We were distributed to different relatives to raise us. I ended up in a rather strange family. They were actually not even relatives. This lady who took me up had been a beneficiary of my father's educational fund; so, she took me in out of gratitude. My childhood was tough and grounded where nothing was taken for granted. But I think that tough childhood groomed me into a very responsible, independent adult since I had no room for making mistakes. I left when I was in P4. At least she showed her gratitude... And where did you go? My elder sister was a teacher; so, she took me up and I went wherever she was posted. And knowing that resources were not available, I always did my best in school and I actually went through school mostly on bursaries. Which schools are these? Uganda Martyrs primary school in Mbarara. I did my O-level at Crested High School in Kampala and A-level at Lakeside College Luzira, a school that nurtured my spiritual life although I am not an SDA. Thereafter, I went to Makerere University for a Bachelor of Arts in social sciences and majored in public administration. And in came TV. How did it feel being on TV interviewing celebrities? To be honest it was fun and most of these celebrities were my friends because I had met them while working. It was more like being paid to do what I love. Tell me about your day. First of all I sleep so late. My night is my day and my day is my night. My mind is set to waking up at 10am no matter what time I sleep. I go through my phone, which is my workstation, check my emails and organize my to-do list for the day. Paint me a picture of your perfect full day at home. [Smiling as she speaks passionately] I love staying at home. It is my safe place because I am always out. I call my house the Pink house because it is pink, anyway. So, when I wake up, I make my breakfast, then plan for my lunch since I cook [Shows Quick Talk a photo on her phone of her peeling matoke while kneeling and several other photos of her in the kitchen]. I love reality TV; so, I watch lots of it both for fun and to learn a few things. I mostly chill while at home. Wow, rare to find single people who actually cook full meals! Who are the people you look up to? Most of my life lessons have been self-taught. I just allow life to be a teacher because what works for one person may not work for me. Everyone has their own blessing from God. But most importantly, I work hard. I can say I admire our former director Aggie Konde, being a female in this male-dominated media industry. Which books do you read? I read inspirational books. I read [former US president Barrack] Obama's work, Oprah Winfrey, [US president] Donald Trump. [laughs] I know people don't like him but he has very great ideas especially if you are an entrepreneur. I am also an emotional reader; so, I also read some romance novels as well. Who is your ideal man? I want a man who is driven with their own personal life going on. I am mostly looking for friendship but most importantly, someone who is secure. Someone I can grow with financially, spiritually and do everything together. So, is this guy in your life? No [laughs] not really. He will come. Amen. What is your take on this whole slay queen thing? You see, people took the whole thing out of context. I love to slay. Slaying means doing something extraordinary but people took it out of context and gave it a negative connotation. So, all I can say is: may the real slay queens step out and may the fake slay queens sit down!