Popularly known as Nagawa, CHARLOTTE BEAUVOISIN is a passionate wildlife conservationist currently working on a project called Conservation With Public Health. She is also a lover of tourism and an ardent blogger. She came to Uganda nine years ago and fell in love with the country that she wants to grow old in. Quick Talk recently had a chat with her at Coffee at Last café in Makindye. From which clan is your name Nagawa? [Laughing] Enkima clan. I've got a very good friend, Rashid, a tour driver. When my family first came to Uganda, he took us on a trip to Queen Elizabeth and Murchison Falls national parks. He knew that I wanted to stay in Uganda because of the way I had fallen in love with the country. He said that to stay in Uganda I needed a Ugandan name. So, why Nagawa? It was his idea to call me Nagawa. I had no idea about the names and the clans. It was a really nice idea and a lot of people know me as Nagawa, because it is easier for people to say and I have a lot of fun with it especially when I am on a boda boda and they are trying to give me a mzungu price and I am bargaining and say "salako". The boda boda guys start laughing. And when I say my name is Nagawa, they know I've been here a while. They always have a good laugh about a Mzungu called Nagawa. What made you choose to settle in Uganda? I had a very good job and a good life in the UK, but I had a desire to live in Africa since I was a teenager. I can't even say why, but I just did. So, I came here for two years but at the back of my mind when I left UK, I felt this could be a long stay. And here I am. How old were you when you came to Uganda? How old? [Laughing] You don't wanna tell everyone in the newspaper how old I am! I was nine years younger than I am now. Let's just say that [this age thing really is a Ugandan women problem, then... !] Okay! Outside work, what has interested you in this beautiful country? Gosh, I don't know where to start really. Ugandans make us feel very welcome; that's huge. And I like the fact that life is slow and people take time to greet you. I've lived in London where people don't talk very much in public but here you get in a matatu and say "good morning", "how are you". That is really great. Yeah sure. I also find this country very inspiring with lots of things to do. When I arrived here, I thought I would have been everywhere in two years because the country is fairly small, but I am still discovering new things and places nine years down the road. I like living in Kampala because the nightlife is superb, the eating culture is great. I love my cappuccino and there are so many places I can get it. I love the music and events. There is always something happening. Isn't there? True. So, have you tried a rolex? Yes! In fact, this place has really good rolex. They've got about three or four different rolex on the menu and I've stayed in Makindye for a couple of years and this was like my second office whenever my power would go off. I would come and work from here and eat their rolex. What about nsenene? Oh, I like them, but at first I didn't. I have a phobia for insects, particularly cockroaches. I am terrified of cockroaches. So, the thought of eating nsenene? No, you would never catch me eating those, but I actually tried them and I now enjoy them. A couple of days ago when my family arrived for their holiday, my mum asked me, "So, when are we gonna try nsenene?" Did she try them? Yes! My whole family tried them last week and my sister really liked them. I took her to the airport yesterday and she said, "Oh, I wanted to have some more grasshoppers." Who is your favourite artiste in Uganda? I love Eddy Kenzo and the Ghetto kids. [Sings a line from Eddy Kenzo's song, Sitya Loss] Danceee danceee... ! That's all I understand in the entire song, but it is such a positive song and I just want to dance every time I hear it. I just love the original video with kids on the dusty street. I also like Cindy Sanyu, Bobi Wine and Afrigo band. Before I forget, what do white girls find fascinating about Rastafarians or guys with dreadlocks? [Nagawa wrote a popular article about fake Rastas who take advantage of white girls] First of all, these are not Rastafarians. They are just look-alikes. A true Rasta is a lovely person with a big heart and they don't normally drink [alcohol] but they smoke weed. But most of the Rasta look-alikes here are liars and cheats. But yeah, it's crazy how many mzungu chicks like to hang out with these Rasta guys. But why? I think if you haven't been to Africa before, you think that is a genuine African person, but there is so much to culture and that is just a superficial view of it. I dated a 'Rasta' before and he was a total user and a liar but writing that story helped me get over the heartbreak. Is there any other thing you don't like about Ugandan men in general? Ugandan men tell women they love them very quickly, in my experience. They say 'I love you' when they mean 'I want you'. I know in my culture people will tell lies here and there, but it's more common here. So, where does that put Ugandan men in comparison to the Brits? I've dated a few Ugandan men but relationships here are quite difficult. As a British woman, I don't expect a guy to be two-timing me. It does happen of course, but here it seems to be very normal. I wish people would say I am polygamous rather than try to pretend that they are faithful. But yes, Ugandan men are very attractive. Oh, can you peel matooke? Yes I can. [Laughing] and I can also light a sigiri but I don't like to do it so often because it sometimes takes me too long. But I prefer using gas because it's much better for the environment. Charlotte was born to Chris and liz Beauvoisin. She has a younger sister, Sarah Beauvoisin. She has a B.A degree in politics from the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London and a diploma from the Chartered Institute of Marketing at the London Metropolitan University.