Gaborone — Thapong Visual Arts Centre is set to grill artists next month as they look to select and discuss a few artworks that were submitted for last year's Thapong Artist of the Year Award (TAYA) with the aim of helping artists who want to improve on their overall workmanship. Obed Mokhuhlani was crowned TAYA winner for 2017 and pocketed P45 000 and P15 000 rserved for him to go to Namibia on an art exchange programme and the centre coordinator, Reginald Bakwena said in an interview that the workshops were free and encouraged as many artists as possible to attend. He said such workshops had proved to be good for artists. "Ever since we started hosting such talks, we have seen the improvement in artists' work and their submissions have been top notch, besides a few who are still lagging behind," he said. He encouraged artists to stay in contact with various speakers who made presentations at workshops because it could go a long way in making a difference for them in the world of art. Last year saw Botswana Telecommunications Corporation Limited (BTCL) Foundation continue its working relationship with the arts centre with a reported sponsorship of over P300 000 for TAYA and phonebook competition. In an interview, BTCL corporate communications manager, Golekanye Molapisi said their relationship with Thapong goes way back. He indicated that BTCL Foundation values the role of visual and fine arts in Botswana hence the continued relationship between the two parties. "We value the role played by this industry in our everyday life and we understand that for it to make a significant difference and meaningful contribution in people's lives, we have to play our role as well," he said. He said art was not only pleasing to the eye but can also be used to address serious issues such as poverty and also creating employment. "Before, when people thought of art, they usually thought it was a hobby and artists are just messing around without any intent, but these days it can be a livelihood that feeds families. We need to get to a point where art becomes synonymous with business," he said. Molapisi noted that BTCL is a Botswana company and art is one aspect where the corporation gives back to the communities it is operating within. "BTCL Foundation is looking to nurture and grow talent in the arts," he said, adding that TAYA is aimed at recognising and rewarding the professional artistry in Botswana. "With the phonebook competition, we aim to focus and target young artists in schools and giving them a platform to announce themselves on a bigger occasion and rewarding them for their efforts," said Molapisi. "BTCL Foundation wants to be at the forefront of playing a leading role in encouraging this craft," he concluded. Officially opening the 13th TAYA and BTC phonebook competition last year, Minister of Youth Empowerment, Sport and Culture Development, Thapelo Olopeng indicated that TAYA and BTC phonebook cover competition both sought to discover, recognise and acknowledge new ideas, skills and talent of individual artists in Botswana. Olopeng indicated that the ministry's greatest task was to commercialise arts and to ensure that local artists enjoyed maximum exposure. He had also expressed gratitude for efforts of organisations such as Thapong Arts Centre which housed artists and facilitated their participation in local and international competitions and expos to create networks for marketing opportunities. "Through the culture and heritage programme, we have undertaken a number of programmes that include the President's Day competitions, Arts and Craft exhibitions, public arts projects as well as different forums with arts and culture practitioners," he said. He added that all aimed to showcase diversity and uniqueness of cultures as a nation. That, he said also helped artists to realise their full potential and contribute towards the economy and economic diversification. Olopeng said he was hopeful that winners of the phonebook cover competition for this year would be mentored to graduate into professional artists. "As a country we have to be innovative in order for Botswana to participate in the international arts exhibitions. It is very important to give Botswana art an international platform and my ministry aims to support such initiatives," he said. In 2017, submissions for TAYA stood at 170 and it was an encouraging development, hence the hope that this year, participation by artists would increase significantly further exposing talent in the country. Source : BOPA