"I'm the best kadongokamu artiste in the country and everyone knows it," a proud Lord Fred Ssebatta tells The Observer during an interview at his Kibuye offices. Some say the Matendo Promoted Singers' boss is the remaining giant from a generation of artistes-cum-storytellers. Others call him the grandfather of kadongokamu. The only people that compared to Ssebatta were Paul Job Kafeero who died in 2007; Herman Basudde who perished in a motor accident in 1997; and Livingstone Kasozi whose passing on in 1997 left Ssebatta 'orphaned'. Their deaths marked the beginning of the end of kadongokamu as the dominant music genre in Uganda. But his peers' deaths aside, Ssebatta reasons the current generation lost interest in learning, which the sometimes 10-minute- long kadongokamu songs were about. There have been efforts to administer resuscitatory first aid (CPR) to kadongokamu. On December 16 last year Gen Caleb Akandanwaho aka Salim Saleh, the chairman of NRM's poverty eradication campaign, Operation Wealth Creation (OWC), organized a competition for kadongokamu artistes to sing about agriculture. Ssebatta won the competition and walked home Shs 50m richer. "Everybody knows agriculture is good for our country," Ssebatta says in Luganda. "When I heard of opportunities that people would exploit to improve agriculture, I decided to come up with a song, Enkumbi Eyamba as a contribution to that struggle." The competition saw more than 100 singers contesting, with Vincent Ssegawa the first runner-up winning Shs 25m, Sylvesto Busulwa the second runner-up taking Shs 15m and Mathias Walukagga winning Shs 10m. "When you listen to all the songs that competed, mine was information-laden just like all the others I have composed. The reason my songs stand the test of time is because they are as educative as they are entertaining. If the competition was only about entertaining people, I'm sure I wouldn't have won," Ssebatta says. He says for the last 39 years he has been in the music industry, he has taught countless musicians how to compose and sing meaningful music. "I will not be competing again. I think at my level, I should be among the adjudicators," Ssebatta says. And he believes in Gen Saleh's cause; a good song can go a long way in sensitization. "There are many successful people who have confessed to me that it was one of my songs that influenced them to work hard," Ssebatta says. His win has turned him into an agriculture ambassador; he is now organizing concerts to promote agriculture and OWC activities. "What government has done is very wise because they have been having programs that have not been working because they don't want to involve people who appeal to people. I'm a fighter who doesn't use a gun but I'm very effective in causing change. I also want to see a country that is prosperous and youths that are actively engaged in economic transformation. I'm not a politician but I would love to see a better Uganda; there is nothing as rewarding as going to an area for a concert and people are able to attend because they have the capacity to pay," Ssebatta says. Besides, that Shs 50m bounty could not have come at a better time; the Sam Wange singer was sinking in debt when the win came. "I depend a lot on moneylenders who charge very high interests rates. Recently I was in hiding because of debts; so, when I got the money, I had to first clear them," Ssebatta says. He also bought additional equipment for the band with his prize money. He founded Matendo in 1990. Who is Ssebatta? Ssebatta was born on February 24, 1958, in Nakwaya, Singo, in the present-day Kiboga district to Yusuf Ssebatta and Yeresi Nagawa, both deceased. His mother had three children - Ssebatta being her only boy. His father sired other children, a total Ssebatta declines to reveal. Ssebatta went to Nakwaya primary school where he completed P7 before joining Kalinabiri Secondary School Ntinda and dropping out in S2. Had he not dropped out when he did, Uganda would probably have one of the best mathematicians in him, seeing as he was so good at the subject "not even a calculator could beat me". Instead though, he ended up in a motorcycle garage learning the basics of mechanical engineering. It was there that he decided to train as a boxer, a sport he did professionally until he got involved in an accident and his doctor advised him to ditch the game. "I was working in a motorcycle garage near the current old taxi park. Kimera, the guy I was working for, sent me for a spanner but because I was new, I couldn't differentiate their sizes. I delayed and lost the job to another apprentice. Kimera gave me two hot punches on the face resulting in a swelling. That evening I didn't go home but, rather, to Nakivubo stadium to train as a boxer," Ssebatta recalls. He liked music but had never considered it for a career; the doctor's orders forced him to dig deep. "I had started singing in school but it wasn't voluntary. Some teachers use music as a punishment. Music is allocated time after classes when everybody is going home; that's when they say, choir members remain behind for training. I think music should be treated like any other subject so that all learners are given an opportunity to decide whether they want it or not," Ssebatta says. Ssebatta started singing seriously shortly after the 1979 coup that toppled Idi Amin and returned Apollo Milton Obote as president. His song, Ani Yali Amanyi Nti Eggwanga Lirinunulwa ushered him into the music industry. He then joined the Kadongokamu Culture Company until he paired with Matia Luyima to start Kadongokamu Super Singers. Those 1980s were also the kadongokamu heydays; when young girls sang along to songs such as Sam Wange or Luyima's classic Embaga Ya Nakakawa, among others. In 1990, Ssebatta broke away from Luyima to start Matendo. He has since recorded more than 200 songs. What many don't realize is it takes true, unique art for a kadongokamu singer with that big a catalogue, to know all his lengthy songs by heart! Ssebatta says it is only about 50 songs that he struggles with, "but it can't take me two days before I have recalled all of them". Of all his music, Ssebatta says Baana Bange and Dole w'Omwana are personal favourites. Dole w'Omwana was his bestselling album that also distinguished him as the only Ugandan artiste to fill Nakivubo stadium to capacity in a one-man show; Baana Bange won him the title of the Star of Africa in 1997 organized by the International Theater Institute. Family Asked why he calls himself 'lord', Ssebatta says it is his fans who call him lord because of his smartness. "To tell you frankly, there was a time I was among the three best-looking men in this country!" the 59-year-old boasts. Yes; with his star power, fair skin complexion and that tenor, Ssebatta was as hot as they came. No wonder, despite his Christian roots, he is a proud husband to three wives with a number of children he declines to put a number to. But he vehemently denies being a womanizer. "Many of my colleagues have died of HIV/Aids. I'm one person who cares about my life; I know prevention is better than cure," Ssebatta says, adding he is also too picky when it comes to love. "You will never find me getting involved with women at concerts or in bars. But that is not to say that sometimes we don't get tempted like the Baganda say, ak'omunaku kekazikiza omuliro... " Future of Kadongokamu What is of grave concern to many kadongokamu fans is the evolution of the genre, literally named for its using just a guitar, into an afro-pop fusion of sorts. Where a kadongokamu song was one long story rhythmically told with just a bed of guitar, now it is drums/keyboards/bass galore. Ssebatta says change is inevitable and they have had to embrace band music; nevertheless, he believes his genre must retain its unique rhythm. "I still have my guitar, unlike many others. The rest are accompaniments; if you allow the accompaniments to overpower you, then you've lost the tradition of kadongokamu." And Ssebatta knows a lot about that tradition and the people that influenced it. "I remember when the late Christopher Ssebadduka and Dan Mugula agreed to listen to my music... I didn't sleep that night!" Ssebatta says. Ssebatta and his kadongokamu cronies have not been helped by electronic media, currently dominated by youthful presenters that do not understand kadongokamu. These, Ssebatta says, promote music that has no message, just noise. "These days most radio and TV stations dedicate either a Saturday or Sunday for kadongokamu. Worse still, the programs are aired during hours when people are in church," Ssebatta says. There is too little edutainment and an overdose of entertainment, according to the experienced Ssebatta, which is responsible for the current moral decadence. "We have got a wasted generation because it is fed on noise. That is the reason I don't have a lot of artistes I respect these days." Still, he holds David Lutalo in high esteem, because while Lutalo sings about love, he also focuses on public affairs. Ssebatta is now in talks with the Kapaapaala star to come up with a collabo. Ssebatta loves abstract music that is interpreted differently by every listener, and his Dole w'Omwana was famous in part because of that. "I enjoy literature and the suspense it brings. There was a song called Agawalaggana Mu Nkoola by Baligidde; it was very good. He used a lot of imagination that even I was confused about what he was talking about." So, he is almost 60; many his age are staring retirement in the face. "I'm going to sing up to my last breath; I don't regret having joined music," he says. Some of Ssebatta's memorable hits Bamulyasooka Enkumbi Eyamba Nalwewuuba Dole w'Omwana Sam Wange Obulamu Bumpi Teriba Ddogo Nabawanuka Amaka g'Abasomyeko Gologosa Abafirika Ekyagaza Omubi Zibula Atudde Enjawulo y'Abafumbo Namu Yanoba Nva Ku Musawo Baana Bange Abalina Bakitammwe Abawala Mumpemudde Abafumbo Mpola Mpola bakerbatte@observer.ug