The two-day Silicon Valley event will feature thought leaders, innovators, entrepreneurs, and investors from around the world The African Diaspora Network (ADN) is hosting its Third Annual African Diaspora Investment Symposium (ADIS) on January 26-27, 2018 at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, CA, from 8:00 am to 7:30 pm. This two-day conference will provide networking, community-building, and knowledge-sharing with symposium attendees as we celebrate a spirit of abundance and unearth the richness of the Continent's resources, as well as the talents and contributions of Africans, friends of Africa, and Diasporans. Join us for an interactive weekend of conversations, action planning, and partnership building as we connect Silicon Valley with Africa's thought leaders, digital influencers, entrepreneurs, technologists, educators, innovators, public and social leaders. This weekend will include social media integration and livestream for a global and interactive experience to uplift the African continent by building bridges among Africans, Diasporans, and friends of Africa. "Our 2018 theme, "Building Africa's Future: Magnifying What is Within," seeks to amplify the changemakers and leaders shaping the Continent's future," said Almaz Negash, Founder of African Diaspora Network. "Experts, panelists, and participants will engage in fruitful dialogue to examine the crossroads between human capital, natural resources, investment, entrepreneurship, innovation, and technology in Africa." Panel discussions with key industry leaders: Startup Pitch by Diaspora Entrepreneurs Last year's symposium drew participants around the globe from Africa, Europe, Canada and the United States. Discussion and workshops included key trend sessions on fintech and financing Africa, growing startup ecosystem presentations, and investor and entrepreneurship workshops. This year we are excited to bring an interactive experience that highlights the accomplishments made in Africa's emerging markets as well as show how we can take innovation to the next level. Expected to attend are leaders in tech, philanthropy, government, and business as well as the digital influencers of the future. Since inception, the African Diaspora Network has energized collaboration among Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, philanthropists and African diasporans to uplift its local community towards the benefit of Africa. ADN is dedicated to providing virtual and physical forums to accelerate access to resources that foster partnership, knowledge sharing, and advance investment opportunities. "Let's open the doors for Africa and to Africa so the world can see, feel, and know how proud we are of our motherland, the place we call home," said Chris Folayan, Chairman of the African Diaspora Network and CEO of MallforAfrica. "African Diaspora Network (ADN) is a platform that brings Africans and friends of Africa together to make a positive impact in Africa. It inspires African diasporans to do more for Africa by networking and coming together as one." For more information on the African Diaspora Investment Symposium visit: https://adis2018.squarespace.com. About African Diaspora Network African Diaspora Network is a registered 501(c)(3) nonprofit membership organization. Our mission is to harness and engage the intellectual, financial, philanthropic and entrepreneurial capacity of Africans and friends of Africa in support of economic and social development across Africa. About Bordernation Bordernation is a multimedia production company specializing in digital storytelling. Our mission is to help businesses, influencers, and organizations tell their visual story with captivating videos. We also create videos that tell authentic African stories showing life, harmony, cultures, nature and all the dynamics that makes Africa the cradle of humanity. We focus on African entrepreneurs, innovators, artists and game changers highlighting their success stories while helping create a brand and an audience.