National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS) said that Nigeria achieved about 40 percent local content with the Total's $3.3 billion Egina Floating, Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO). The Group General Manager, NAPIMS, Mr. Roland Ewubare disclosed this at the reception of the FPSO in Lagos recently. Consequently, he remarked that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC and NCDMB have aligned with the project which has the capacity to sustain the nation's economy. "The rational government policy has to be additional local content. NNPC and NAPIMS will support the NCDMB fully in fulfilling that mission." However, the Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Engr. Simbi Wabote, added that the Board was working with operating companies and project promoters to ensure that new projects like the Bonga South West and Zabazaba deep water projects surpass the significant Nigerian Content levels attained on the Egina project. Wabote who was represented by the General Manager, Projects and Operations Division, NCDMB, Engr. Paul Zuhumben stressed the need for close collaboration among stakeholders of the industry, particularly the NNPC, National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS) and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) to ensure that new deep water projects are developed speedily. "This is the beginning. We know the Zabazaba is coming with an FPSO. We have made it mandatory on forthcoming major projects that the Egina project will be used as a minimum. It means we are going to dream big and fabricate and integrate more modules in-country." The Executive Secretary maintained that the feat was attained because of the support of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu and the Board's strategic implementation of the Nigerian Content Act and insistence on the maximization of existing capacities and development of new capabilities. He said, "At the conceptualization of the project we insisted that certain activities must be carried out in Nigeria. This is why you see the Egina FPSO coming from South Korea to Nigeria for integration." Aside the six modules that were fabricated in Nigeria, the Executive Secretary also stated that several other components were executed in-country, including 60,000 tons of fabrication, involvement of 250 Nigerian engineers on the project and use of locally made paint on the FPSO. Speaking further, he confirmed the board's determination to ensure that new projects were developed within the six months cycle mandated by the federal government. He said that this is necessary to keep yards like the FPSO integration yard engaged, he said. "Setting up a facility like this would have cost between $250 million to $300 million. If we don't put new projects in place, thousands of Nigerians employed at the yard will be laid off."