Makurdi — The Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has denied the allegations by security agents that he has 6,000 militias, adding if he does, he would have deployed them to protect the people of the state who have been continuously attacked and killed by herdsmen even with the presence of security men. The governor made the remarks at the weekend during a visit to a camp at Local Government Primary School Gbajumba in Guma Local Government Area of the state where some Internally Displaced Persons, (IDPs) are being kept and catered for. Ortom also visited a government hospital in the local government where victims of the fresh herdsmen's attack are receiving treatment. During the visit, he was informed by one of the victims of the death of a policeman, Sgt. Solomon Dung, who was killed by the herdsmen while on a special duty in the area. The injured police officer disclosed that the Fulani herdsmen always outnumber the policemen and also carried superior weapons. "We were about 30 while they were more than 40. The cattle were in front while the heavily armed herdsmen stayed at the back. Immediately they sighted us, they came out from their ambush and started shooting in our direction. We responded. But when we realised we could not engage them effectively because of their superior weapons, we had to retreat. Unfortunately. Dung could not make it." He confirmed that the attackers were foreign herdsmen. "I saw them. I engaged them. They were Fulani herdsmen. We can only confront them if we hold good weapons." The governor sympathised with the victims and promised to take care of them. "This is a serious matter. The federal government must stop treating herdsmen with kid gloves. Enough is enough. The herdsmen from what you have seen and heard have graduated from killing women and children to killing our law enforcement agents. This is unacceptable. "And somebody will stay somewhere and just be telling lies that Ortom has 6,000 militia. If I have militia, will I fold my arms and watch foreigners kill my people in my own local government?" He urged the federal government to "stop the blame game and take the bull by the horn once and for all. "They said I talk too much. I will continue to talk until they give us justice. They cannot silence me. But even if they do, one day these young ones who are refugees today, will take up the fight tomorrow."