Calabar — Niger Delta agitators have endorsed plans by Niger Delta Avengers, NDA, to resume hostilities in the region in the next few days over alleged discriminatory actions of the Federal Government against the oil producing region. The agitators, who met under the auspices of the 21st Century Youths of Niger Delta, in Calabar, Cross River State, directed all freedom fighters in the region to be on red alert. Spokesperson of the group, W O I Izon Ebi, in a statement, said: "After our successful emergency meeting held in the capital of Cross Rivers State, Calabar, we have resolved to adhere to the instructions of the highest command of the Niger Delta struggle, the Niger Delta Avengers, NDA. "We direct all freedom fighters and our white sharks to be on red alert for further instructions because this battle is to protect our heritage and dignity as a people. "We shall knock all Floating Production Storage Facilities, FPSOs down because they are all in our ocean. It is a shame that our President, Muhammadu Buhari, will tell the indigenous people of Benue State that are being slaughtered like sheep in their fatherland by Islamic machineries masquerading as Fulani herdsmen, to accommodate their murderers (fellow countrymen). "The 21st Century Youths of the Niger Delta and agitators with conscience disagree with Mr President's remark to the aggrieved people of Benue State to accommodate their fellow countrymen." They also condemned the inflammatory comment of Professor Umar Muhammed of the Faculty of Humanities, North West University Kano, alleging that Benue State belongs to the Fulanis by right of conquest. "We in the Niger Delta will not accommodate and allow Islamic mercenaries masquerading as Fulani herdsmen, imported into the country in the build-up of the 2015 general election to invade, rape, kill our helpless mothers and children with impunity. "How can the President tell the people of Benue State that are mourning their beloved family members that were slaughtered in cold blood by Islamic mercenaries to accommodate their killers? We believe that Sambisa forest is vast enough and the Nigerian Army has the capacity to make it conducive for cattle rearing to avoid the killing of innocent Nigerians that are suffering in their nation because of the activities of Fulani herdsmen." "We, therefore, urge all our fighters and agitators with conscience to put machineries in place and adhere to the instruction of the highest command of the Niger Delta struggle, The Niger Delta Avengers to take the fight to the deep seas to knock all FPSOs down. "We instruct that all our fighters should adhere to all instructions from the highest command, the NDA, because this fight is to protect our heritage and dignity as a people. We urge all fighters to be more determined to fight to the last drop of our blood for equity and justice. "We must, we still repeat that we are going to control our resources. We are not going to allow Islamic mercenaries masquerading as Fulani herdsmen to cause mayhem in our villages and communities with impunity and still kill our suffering mothers and children. "We want to warn that we know the motive behind the release of over 3,000 Boko Haram detainees that are currently being absorbed into the Nigerian military to achieve their Islamic agenda. "We are calling on Niger Deltans to be more determined and support our fighters with prayers.