Ado Ekiti — As Nigerians began to label Fulani hersdsmen as killers following the deaths recorded in Benue and Taraba States in recent times, a group under the auspices of Fulani Ilorin Emirates Youths Vanguard, has regretted what it termed "hasty generalisation of Fulanis as terrorists and criminally-minded ethnic group in Nigeria. The members in Irepodun/ Ifelodun Local Government of Ekiti State, in a statement issued by its Chairman, Usman Garba, and Public Relations Officer, Oorelope Folarin, made available to journalists in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, expressed concern over an alleged blanket tagging of all Fulanis as mindless killers. The body said its members can't afford to unleash mayhem on Ekiti, having been part and parcel of Yoruba community and Ekiti where they have lived for 50 years. "This is our home because many of us and even our fathers were born here. So, we have no reason to cause trouble for anybody because, where to live is not where to destroy. "It is very sad and most unfortunate that each time there was violent clash between herders and farmers, the media always look in the direction of Fulani as culprits.What the media fails to recognise is that there are number of tribes involved in this business " "Among the tribes are :Hausa, Fulani, Bororo, and Bakolo. Others are Kaje and Tivs from the Northern part of the country," the statement read in part. "We are therefore calling on government as well as security agencies to conduct full investigation into renewed hostilities between farmers and herders in the state with a view to apprehending the culprits." Meanwhile, a cleric of the Christ Apostolic Church, Prophet Sam Olu Alo, has urged Nigerians to display patriotism by supporting President Muhammadu Buhari, to rid the country of killer herdsmen, rather than engaging in bulk passing. He said the barrage of attacks on the president would only distract government and derail the focus to be able to tackle these killers, urging Nigerians to be mindful of their comments, so that the nefarious act won't linger for too long. Alo added that the fact that Nigerians were holding divergent views over killer herdsmen , rather than having a unanimous view, which was to condemn the recent massacre in Benue, Taraba and Adamawa States attested to the general views that the country is not united. Alo is one of the coordinators of the mountain of Mercy, Erio Ekiti, Ekiti State, said he had foreseen the recent bloodshed and its causes and had made effort to pray against it as instructed by God but was hampered by some challenges. "About three or for years ago, I remembered I did some prayers about God's warning to Nigerians, God wanted us to pray fervently for peace and unity of the country. "He instructed me then to go to twelve states in the country, organise prayers in this respect. But I could only reach three states then which were Akure, Lagos at the National Stadium and Ekiti. "All I needed then was more men of God to rally round me for the prayers but we didn't see them. We were to pray for God's mercy on the nation then to avert this tragedy.