Asaba — Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) have issued alert that the group is set to attack oil installations, targeting deep sea operations as it renewed call for restructuring Nigeria. In a statement issued Wednesday, the group condemned the alleged deception, arrest and extra-judicial killing of the dreaded Karowei, a militant and kidnap kingpin and 20 members of his gang, who NDA said was lured with Amnesty offer by the Army. According to the NDA statement, the group has perfected plans to carry out 'deadly' attacks on the Bonga Platform, Agbami, EA Field, Britania-U Field, Akpo Field; amongst others littered across the deep waters of the Niger Delta region would be flashpoints. "As for the Egina FPSO, we are advising the operators to let it stay where ever it is right now as we are tracking it's movement. We mean it when we say they (the oil installations) shall dance to the sound of the fury of the Niger Delta Avengers. Good a thing the ocean is wide enough to accommodate as many wreck as possible", the group vaunted. Giving reasons for its reneging on earlier ceasefire, the NDA stated that the current insecurity pervading the country calls for more expedient actions to drive home the burning agitation for the restructuring of the country. "On the 15th of January 2018, being the 62nd historic remembrance day of the 1956 discovery of commercial oil by Shell Darcy in the now forgotten and dejected Oloibiri Community in the Niger Delta, the high command of the ND Avengers summoned a meeting of all our operatives from across the Niger Delta to review the progress of our operations so far and deliberate on the planned actions for the future. "It was agreed in that meeting that the killings and division presently playing out in Nigeria along divergent grounds makes this the perfect time to restructure this country", the statement signed by the NDA spokesman, Maj.Gen Murdoch Agbinibo said. NDA continued: "Our demand unambiguously is for the government to "RESTRUCTURE THIS COUNTRY". On the 3rd of November 2017, we promised to reactivate "operation red economy" but as usual some overzealous and over patriotic elders intervened and appealed as they have done twice before then for us to avail them some more time to attend to the demands of the Niger Delta as championed by the Niger Delta Avengers. "That we have not achieved any meaningful results despite the opportunities we have availed the Niger Delta elders means that they are either irresponsible or the Nigerian government is not sincere with them as it is their trade in stock. Because of the above, we have resolved not to listen to the Niger Delta elders as we unravel our New year package to the failed Nigerian state this time around", NDA averred. Making a case for restructuring, NDA asserted that anybody against restructuring is an enemy of this country and particularly an enemy of the Niger Delta Avengers, adding "we shall not rest until such enemies are defeated by the Niger Delta people who earnestly seek to control our own resources". "We want to control our resources and directly use them to better our lot instead of been enslaved and made to beg before crumbs are released in a dress rehearsal-like manner to intervention agencies that are ineffective at addressing our challenges. "While 1Billion Dollars from the excess crude account is been released to fight a Boko Haram in the North; successive government acts blind to the very bold array of challenges our region from which this wealth is generated is facing; as they (the Nigerian Government) derives pleasure in sending their unprofessional and weak military to invade our communities and subject our already sick and suffering people to more hardship and poverty", the NDA listed. The group noted that only a few days ago the Nigerian Army released 244 members of the Boko Haram sect to Borno state government while alleging that thousands of innocent Niger Delta youths continue to suffer in various prisons across the country for no just cause. "It is on the above premise that we are demanding the immediate release of all Niger Deltans Activists and Freedom Fighters that are held captive by the Nigeria Armed Forces", the group underlined. The NDA condemned the alleged extrajudicial killing of Kareowei and 20 members of his gang by the Nigerian Army, who were allegedly lured with Amnesty offer, however admitting Karowei and his gang were "common criminals who brought pain to our own people but going ahead to murder them after reaching an agreement with them and making them to surrendered to the army is a clear pointer to the insincerity of the Nigerian Government at handling issues that concern the Niger Delta". "Just like the Nigerian Government daily deceive the international community of how professional the multinationals are carrying out their operations and how vast they have developed our lands; when the reverse is actually the case on ground. "Let the Kareowei issue be a lesson to all freedom fighters across the Niger Delta never to fall for the antics of the insincere Nigerian Government. Put the fear of death aside and fight till the last drop of blood whenever you are engaged in a gun duel with the Nigeria Army as it is this same path we have chosen to glory", the NDA statement added.