A journalist working for a local radio station has appealed to well-wishers and friends to help him raise Sh12million required for urgent treatment of acute Leukemia in South Africa. Dennis Omondi, a sub-editor at West FM, was diagnosed with Leukemia on the 10th of this month after going to the hospital to find out why his body temperature was raising beyond normal. He says it all started in December 28, 2017 when after he arrived in Nairobi from Busia. He fell sick with malaria and immediately sought medical attention. He was able to get back to normal after taking medication. However, after he a while he still felt his body getting warmer than usual. "After the treatment I regained my strength but I still felt my body temperature was high. I went back to the hospital and had some blood tests run on me. The results showed that there was a bacterial infection in my blood, although they hadn't established what kind of bacteria it was," says the father of one. Further tests revealed that he had abnormal production of the red and white blood cells. URGENT TREATMENT "This is when they gave me very strong antibiotics to see if there would be any change. But after a week when I went back to hospital there was still no change," he says. "They took some tissue samples from me for more tests since they could not understand what was wrong with me." It is when he went for the results that he was informed that he had Acute Leukemia and needed to start treatment immediately. He is currently admitted at Kenyatta National Hospital where - due to his delicate condition - he will stay until he travels to South Africa for treatment in South Africa. "The doctors have advised me that I need Sh12million for the whole treatment to be done by specialists in South Africa," he said. "I am asking for help to raise this money because I cannot do it alone. I'm also asking President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto for any kind of assistance." Contributions can be sent to Dennis through the M-Pesa paybill number 138182, account number 1222903350.