As the federal government intensifies effort to diversify the economy, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has advocated the possibility of adapting the Malaysian model as part of strategic collaboration to promote Nigeria's export trade. The Acting Executive Director/CEO of NEPC, Mr. Sidi-Aliyu Abdullahi, disclosed this yesterday while receiving in his office a delegation from Performance Monitoring and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU), a trade promotion organ under the Prime Minister of Malaysia. Mr. Sidi-Aliyu, while noting that the nation's food import bill was high, stated that the key objective of the Zero Oil Plan (ZOP) initiative of NEPC was to reduce imports by scaling-up production in key sectors of the non-oil export as well as stimulate value addition, job and wealth creation along export value chains. In a statement signed by NEPC Head of Communications, Joe Ita and sent to THISDAY, Sidi-Aliyu disclosed that the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) further complements the ZOP initiative as it is now an integral component of the ERGP with particular emphasis on boosting supply of foreign exchange from non-oil sectors by driving growth in five key areas. These, he said, are concentration on generating US$30billion from 11 strategic products, exploring the competences within the comparative and competitive advantages of States through One State One Product (OSOP) programme, Revenue of Trade Agreements to prioritise Nigerian exports to 22 newly targeted Export destinations, Domestic sourcing of products through launch of first National Export Aggregator and Strengthening of Export Development Fund (EDF) scheme to enhance competiveness of locally produced goods. The host and leader of the delegation Dr. Effiong Essien, Senior Special Assistant to the President (ERGP Implementation) disclosed that the federal government in collaboration with PEMANDU has established Focused Labs to specifically identify three quick-win sectors, namely: agriculture and transport, manufacturing and processing, power and gas. Speaking in the same vein, Arlene Teo, of PEMANDU Associates said the approach is a proven tool aimed at allowing organisations and governments to achieve results as well as work closely with the highest level of government and top executives to help deliver their national and business objectives in a sustainable and inclusive manner. "Our approach in driving and delivering transformation enables both our public and private sector clients to develop clear strategic direction, which is then, translated into detailed implementation programmes with quantifiable outcomes, and progress effectively communicated to their stakeholders," he added. He said the main thrust of their visit was to identify areas of cooperation with the council as well as share the Malaysian experience with a view to improving the volume, quality and standards of Nigeria's exportable products. PEMANDU's main role and objective is to oversee the implementation, assess the progress, facilitate as well as support the delivery and drive the progress of the Government Transformation Programme (GTP) and the Economic Transformation Programme (ETP).