Gaborone — Twenty-one-year old Gaseangwe Balopi from Tonota has made the country proud by winning the second edition of Miss Africa 2017 hosted by Cross River state in Calabar, Nigeria on December 28. In an interview, Balopi said she first heard of Miss Africa from a friend in 2016 but decided not to pursue it then because it came too soon and she believed she was not prepared for it. "But last year I decided to join because of the longing and burning desire to make a difference in the world and the rest is history," she said. Balopi came back P350 000 richer as well as owning a Ford Edge Sport Utility vehicle. She indicated that before her historic milestone, she was among Miss Botswana 2016 finalists and that was where her love for pageantry and modelling journey began. "I have been featured on Elle magazine SA, Legit SA, shot with Sun goddess at SA fashion week and many more," said Balopi adding that she was honoured to have represented Botswana at the prestigious Miss Africa 2017. On her Miss Africa 2017 journey, Balopi said her journey was not an easy. "From spending my first Christmas away from family, to losing my phone a few days before pre-judging; which by the way had all my research, speeches and all, to living with ladies from all over Africa with different cultures, different beliefs, morals etc, I had to make it work," she said. She said she learnt a lot from such experience and had also created lots of friendships and bonds to last her a lifetime. "My best experience from Miss Africa was the Calabar carnival. It is an experience that cannot be likened to any. It is the second biggest carnival in the world and the cultural diversity and colours where amazing," she continued, adding that she was amazed at the patriotism exhibited by Nigerians. "Everything was Nigerian and they took pride in their culture and supported their own throughout, which is something we can learn and emulate here in Botswana," said the young lady from Tonota. She said the carnival themed 'Migration' was not just about fun but also an illustration of the culture of Cross River state and Nigeria as a whole. "The different bands showcased and interpreted the theme 'Migration' using colorful costumes. It was very educational," she said. Quizzed on what she planned to use her prize money on, Balopi said she would use it on her solar powered boreholes project aimed at sustaining a Plant A Tree initiative. "I will also use some of the funds on a migration project that will be launched soon. It is going to be huge so watch the space for further details," she said. She also said she would spoil herself by going shopping, give some to her mother and also donate to some charities she has been working with closely in the past. "Now as Queen of Africa and also ambassador of Migration and Climate Change in Africa, my reign has begun and I intend on changing the game. I am intelligent, eloquent, graceful and I am gold. It is the best time to be alive for the African child and our voice and power echoes from all corners of the world," she concluded. Fiona Naringwa from Rwanda and Luyolo Mngonyama from South Africa were first and second runner-ups respectively, walking away with prize money of P100 000 and P50 000 resepctively. Source : BOPA