In a dramatic shake up e.tv is moving local telenovela Broken Vows from its prime time schedule to its eExtra satellite channel from Monday, 15 January. e.tv will however broadcast an omnibus of the week's Broken Vow s episodes on Saturday mornings at 11:20 and says the channel is still accommodating its viewers without satellite TV in this way. e.tv is also moving its American weekday soap Days of Our Lives half an hour later to 18:00 from Monday, 15 January, with The Steve Harvey Show moved half an hour later from 16:30 to 17:00. The channel is also adding Judge Judy to its schedule from Monday in the 16:30 timeslot. e.tv's successful local soaps Rhythm Cit y and Scandal! are kept in their 19:00 and 19:30 timeslots, followed by eNews with Sally Burdett at 20:00, and the local drama series Easy Money on Mondays and Tuesdays at 21:30. e.tv continues to court viewers with premium American dramas with Shades of Blue with Jennifer Lopez starting on Monday at 20:30, followed by the debut of the 3rd season of Chicago PD on Tuesday, 16 January at 20:30, and with The Blacklist returning for a second season on Wednesday, 17 January at 20:30. The crime drama Power will start on Wednesday, 17 January at 20:30 with Omari Hardwick as James St.Patrick, the owner of a New York nightclub who is also involved in drug smuggling and trying to balance his two different lives. About the latest e.tv schedule change the channel's Marlon Davids, managing director of e.tv says "over the last 20 years e.tv's constant innovation has made the channel a firm favourite in the free-to-air television landscape". "Our new programming line-up demonstrates our commitment to meeting the needs of our audiences. They can look forward to more of the highest quality local programming, alongside world-renowned international content this year." Asked why e.tv is moving Broken Vows off of the e.tv prime time schedule and not letting it run its course, making it impossible for free-to-air viewers to see its conclusion where they started watching it, e.tv says that its channel's business "is invested in its multichannel offering as a whole and hopes to draw Broken Vows audiences to the growing needs of the eExtra channel for dedicated local content". e.tv says "the revamp is aligned to a bigger business strategy as we see upward momentum of the OpenView HD platform." Source: Channel24