Maiduguri — Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Parliamentarians on Sunday said there is relative peace in Boko Haram ravaged Northeastern states of Nigeria for internally displaced persons to return to their homes. The team, which was led by Hon. Sadiq Ibrahim, representing Furore/ Song Federal Constituency of Adamawa State in the House of Representatives told journalists at a press briefing in Maiduguri that government at all levels and other humanitarian actors should work out modalities that will ensure speedy return of millions of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who are taking refuge outside their homelands. Also in the team are Hon. Vilita Asabe, a member of House of Representatives, (Gwoza, Chibok and Damboa federal constituency) Borno state and Hon. Halima Mamane, a lawmaker from Niger Republic. They are part of the ECOWAS delegation on a joint fact-finding mission with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to the North East Nigeria. Ibrahim said from their visits to IDP camps in Borno and Adamawa states and conversations with people in liberated communities, there is willingness for resettlement of the IDPs back in the homelands. He said most of those spoken to are tired of live in the camp and are now willing to go back to their homes to resettle back and start normal life. Ibrahim said, the UNHCR/ ECOWAS Parliament Joint mission to the north east, Nigeria is being conducted within the framework of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed on 5th October, 2016 to find lasting solution to issues of common interest, such as IDPs Refugees, stateless persons and asylum seekers. He said, the delegation had visited IDP camps of Malkohi and Fufore in Adamawa state and other host communities, where they interacted the IDPs and stakeholders. He also noted that the delegation visited Gwoza, Banki town of Borno State, the epicentre of Boko Haram crisis, as well as interacted with IDPs in various camps, security agencies and Governor Kashim Shettima, where facts gathered on the fields will be channeled to relevant authorities for necessary action. Hon. Vilita Bashir on her part, said: "It is high time for IDPs to vacate resettlement camps and go back to their liberated communities, as most of her interaction with the displaced people, IDPs are tired of staying in camps and depend on government for their upkeep".