Lagos — Discordant tunes have continued to trail the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) for African countries which the African Union (AU) launched on Monday on the side-lines of its just concluded summit in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. The SAATM provides for full liberalisation of air transport in African countries as a follow up to the 1988 and 1999 Yamoussoukro Decision (YD) opening up African skies. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) had last week organised a conference to sensitise stakeholders on the implementation of the SAATM amidst opposition by airline operators who contended that the treaty, already endorsed by 23 countries including Nigeria, would open up Nigeria's air space to predatory practice citing the challenges being faced by indigenous carriers. The Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika and the NCAA Director General, Capt. Mukhtar Usman, had emphasised the import of the SAATM and pledged the commitment of Nigeria to its full implementation. Sirika, represented by Managing Director of Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, said the Federal Government has constituted a national implementation committee to review all the subsisting Bilateral Air Services Agreements (BASAs) to be in consonance with the YD while the process of domesticating the decision is currently at an advanced stage. Sirika noted that there is need to leverage on the immense potentials that the full implementation of YD through the SAATM offers, especially in enhancing traffic connectivity and boosting passengers' volumes in the next few years. The African Civil Aviation Commission (AFCAC) Secretary-General, Ms Iyabo Sosina, disclosed that 11 countries, including Nigeria, declared their solemn commitment to the Single Air Transport Market by 2017, adding that it could trigger accelerated economic development for the creation of more jobs. But airline operators in the country are not convinced about the genuineness of the open skies system. Capt. Nogie Megisson, Chairman of Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) and Capt. Mohammed Joji, another operator opposed the arguments espoused by AFCAC as well as the International Air Transport Association (IATA) pushing for its full implementation. Megisson who later issued a statement appealing to the Federal Government to backtrack on the implementation of the SAATM, said though it is a good idea, Nigeria is not well positioned to handle the level of 'unfair' competition that its full implementation could bring. He said Nigeria as a signatory to the Yamoussoukro Declaration liberalizing air transportation in Africa has not benefited from the pact. "High bank interest rates of 28% compared to access to cheap funds provided and guaranteed by the government of most African carriers at a maximum of 2 per cent" are the some of the issues he highlighted in the statement. Another issue he raised was airlines in Nigeria not having access to forex. "We only get allocation per percentage of our bids which takes an average of six months. Most of the African carriers are subsidised and being funded by their governments. Nigerian airlines are at a disadvantage to other African airlines," he noted. On affordability of aviation fuel, he said "Airlines in Nigeria pay high prices for JetA1 due to high taxes compared to some other countries where VAT and taxes in JetA1 have been abolished for their local carriers and some of them have local production of subsidized fuel." "The threat of non-African investors abusing the open skies by setting up airlines since there is no way of ascertaining their shareholder structure and how to ascertain whether they are Africans, thereby diverting investment from Nigeria was another shortcoming he raised about the planned initiative. However IATA and African Airline Association (AFRAA) are pushing for its implementation which they said would revolutionize air transport in Africa. The association said enhanced connectivity will stimulate demand, improve the competitiveness of the African airline industry, and make air travel more accessible, adding that in turn, this will enable higher volumes of trade, expanded tourism and growing commerce between African nations and with the rest of the world. IATA's Vice President for Africa, Raphael Kuuchi, said, "The SAATM has the potential for remarkable transformation that will build prosperity while connecting the African continent." Kuuchi said: "Every open air service arrangement has boosted traffic, lifted economies and created jobs. And we expect no less in Africa on the back of the SAATM agreement. An IATA survey suggests that if just 12 key African countries opened their markets and increased connectivity an extra 155,000 jobs and US$1.3 billion in annual GDP would be created in those countries. "Today's decision is momentous. SAATM is a decisive step towards greater intra-African connectivity and delivers the framework on which to achieve it. Now it's time to get down to the work of implementation," he said. Also, AFRAA Secretary General, Mr. Abdérahmane Berthé, said the Single SAATM would spur development of African Aviation. According to a statement from AFRAA Secretariat in Nairobi, Mr. Berthé lauded the 23 states that are the initial members of the SAATM. But concerns are rife in Nigeria over what a source called the likelihood of "predatory" practices all in the name of open skies. "No country opens up its skies when it does not have the muzzle to compete favourably and fairly with others because a free trade is supposed to be fair and reciprocal," said a source. But Aviation Roundtable, a group of stakeholders in the aviation sector, in a statement by its president, Gbenga Olowo, described the argument of airline operators rejecting the Open Skies policy as "brilliant, sound and forever valid". However, the group challenged the operators to be innovative in evolving synergistic solutions in the form of collaborations in the event government failed to address some of the issues it raised. Olowo said it is high time Nigerian carriers formed mergers to become stronger and compete with other African carriers, noting that the world has progressed and moved towards open skies.