December 2018 is set as completion date for the 156.65-kilometre $1.5bn worth Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail track, but is that feasible? Our correspondent who independently visited the site at Itori in Ogun State to assess the extent of work reports that the target may be a tall order. Though the larger part of the 2,733km Lagos-Kano standard gauge line, the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge line may pass as the most economically viable segment in Nigeria when completed. Preliminary estimates show that about a million passengers may be transported along the route annually. In addition, the segment will not only support over 50,000 direct and indirect jobs, it will help move about a million tonnes of cargo annually, which will effectively take several tanks/trailers off Nigerian roads, thus making the roads safer and more durable. Also, the Lagos-Ibadan, like other rail corridors across the country, will help boost economic activities along the route and this will facilitate the economic diversification programme of the government. The Lagos-Ibadan railway project is in the western part of Nigeria. It starts from Lagos, the largest Nigerian coastal city, passes through Abeokuta in Ogun State and to Ibadan in Oyo state. The project was originally billed to be completed in May, 2020, but was reversed to March 31, 2019, based on pressures from the Federal Government. The Minster of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, has further given December 2018 deadline to the contractor, CCECC, to deliver without failure, an order, the contractor is not comfortable with. Shortly after inspecting the level of work done on the project in early December 2017, Mr. Amaechi told journalists that he was not too impressed with the pace of work and therefore charged the contractor to do more. "Rest assured that we are chasing the Chinese to finish in 2018. Don't forget the contract is three years, and that is their argument, but our own argument is that we need it before 2019 January," Mr. Amaechi said despite the several challenges the project is facing; especially along the Lagos State corridor. Challenges The Lagos-Ibadan rail project is bedevilled with challenges that are threatening to revise the completion period. Our correspondent gathered that beyond the two bridges that would be demolished and rebuilt in Lagos, several kilometres of gas and water pipes and telecoms cables would have to be relocated. A top management staff of CCECC at the site said, "The track passes through the army barracks at Ebute Meta, that means we will have to relocate the barracks, but to where? "The government is still discussing with the military on how to relocate the barracks. Until that is done, there is little we can do. There are several water and gas pipes that have to be relocated. That's a huge challenge because it is complicated relocating those pipes. Also, the existing narrow gauge track will be removed and relocated at some places," the official said. He explained further that, "At some places, the height of the high tension electricity wires need to be elevated to at least 9.5m. As we speak, we still have three kilometres of right of way not yet acquired. We still have thousands of tonnes of steel at the Apapa port due to gridlock. But if the Federal Government can fix all these challenges, we can complete the project this year. If not, there is nothing we can do," he concluded. These challenges are not lost on the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, who in an interview in the second week of January said he was aware of the challenges but that the completion deadline would be met. "The good news is that by December 2018 we should complete the Lagos-Ibadan rail project. But we have about 43km of water pipes to be replaced. We have sewage to deal with. We have bridges to demolish and rebuild, we have an army barracks to relocate, we have gas pipelines to relocate and other challenges. "However, we are discussing with the Lagos State Government on how to deal with these challenges," Amaechi said. Scope of work done When our correspondent visited the site towards the end of December 2017, about 111km right of way had been established along the corridor and over N10bn already paid out in compensation for farmlands, property and economic trees. Excavation around the rail track and sub grade fill/cutting had reached significant level. Several culverts and bridges were being constructed simultaneously. CCECC had also commenced the new Type II of concrete sleeper production with the laying of temporary tracks in advanced stage. However, the final laying of the tracks has not yet commenced. CCECC said the laying of the tracks should commence by March, all things being equal. Contention between host communities and contractor CCECC has accused some sections of the host communities along the corridor of insensitivity and extortion, allegations which one of the local chiefs claimed had been remedied. Adunbu, Abule Otun, Ibagu and Papalanto in Itori, Iwekoro, Local Government Area, of Ogun State are the dominant communities along the Ogun State corridor. CCECC also accused the Ogun State Government of not showing enough support, even though it was a huge beneficiary of the Federal Government project. "The Ogun State Government and communities are not cooperative to the project. The state government had demolished our yard at Abeokuta without notice. I don't think they appreciate this project. Oyo and Lagos have been cooperative," CCECC management said. On the extortion, CCECC claimed it paid N1500 per truck at very supply to their site. "It was N5, 000. We had to negotiate downwards. The local chiefs support the boys. We had meetings with them and staff of the Federal Ministry of Transport staff. We are trying to find a solution," CCECC said. CCECC further said, "The rail project is a Federal Government project and not a private business. So the Ogun State Government and the communities should recognise that. Besides, a large chunk of the project passes through Ogun State, so the state will benefit from the project." Armed with these allegations, our correspondent visited the Baale Adunbu, Chief Kayode Alao Falola, the Ilufemiloye I, in his place to hear his side. Chief Folola agreed that previously each contractor's vehicle making supply was charged N5, 000 cumulatively by different groups, but that the charges were later harmonised by the state government to N500. "The Chinese have suppliers they contract. The community doesn't collect money from the Chinese vehicles, but from the contractors doing business with the Chinese," the Baale said. Host communities' demand While the CCECC management said they had contributed hugely to affecting their host communities positively, the host communities claimed CCECC was not doing enough for them in terms of projects. CCECC said it had built a new road from Itori town to Papalanto, a distance of about six kilometres, and employed about 80 per cent of local labour from the communities. Reacting on behalf of the communities, Chief Falola agreed his subjects had been given jobs, but that they still wanted the contractor to help asphalt the road passing through his palace, sink boreholes for them, build a clinic and perhaps a primary school. "As the Baale, I don't know what they want to do for me. I had requested they help build my palace here in Adunbu, but they haven't responded. I don't want cash, but projects," he said. Conclusion CCECC has told the Federal Government that unless the challenges listed above were holistically addressed on time, they could not deliver by the end December 2018. "The December 2018 deadline will be difficult, but we will do our best. However, we can only achieve that if all the challenges we are facing are cleared by the government." Therefore, the critical question is, will the government be able to fix all those issues in good time? It's highly unlikely but we wait to see how Mr. Amaechi delivers on his deadline.