The United States yesterday reaffirmed its commitment to support Nigeria's economic growth and development through stronger business networks. US Consul General in Lagos, Mr. John Bray, stated this during a courtesy visit and closing gong ceremony at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in Lagos. Bray said that US government and private sector would support Nigeria's growth and development as it continues to discover new investment avenues. He said that the formalised US-Nigeria Commercial and Investment Dialogue to be led by the Office of the U.S Trade Representative, would help develop stronger business networks between the two countries. Gray said: "There is always confidence in the Nigerian market, we talked about the bilateral commission, national commission between Nigeria and the US, trading investment dialogue and these things are ongoing and I would like to say it is our concern and interest is for the Nigerian economy to grow. I look at some of the UN projections for population growth, Nigeria is projected to be the third most populated country in the world by 2050. And that is more population than the US, without capital investment, economic growth, there won't be enough jobs for everybody, this is about prosperity and making Nigerians wealthier and about jobs." He added: "This is a clear message that the US both the government and the private sector is committed to supporting Nigeria as it continues to find new avenues of economic growth and development because the more Nigeria's economy grows, the better it is for both Nigerian and American businesses." Bray commended the management of the NSE for its efforts at meeting the needs of the Nigerian investor community and playing a pivotal role in Nigeria's economic growth. "I know that last year was a very successful year as the NSE was ranked amongst the top five performers in 2017. Projections indicate that 2018 will be an equally successful year, for the growth of the NSE means more private capital in the local market for business expansion and new business start-ups," Bray said. The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said that the exchange would continue to value its relationship with the US. "We will continue to value our relationship with the US and we have had a discussion on how we can collaborate even more to provide opportunities for both the US and Nigerians with regards to capital market, companies, among others issue," Onyema said.