Bishop Ollah Juru has roped in Leonard Zhakata on his new album titled "Mupunga Werudo" that was released recently and launched at City Sports Bar. The album fetched $800 at an auction held during the launch and most fans enjoyed the musician's performance. Leading his Dirozvi Stars band, Bishop Juru excited revellers with his sungura beat that was done by experienced instrumentalists. Renowned sungura producer Jabulani Ndlovu of Trutone Studios worked on the project as engineer and producer. His midas touch can be felt on the tracks. The album has six songs and is likely to be one of the efforts to keep the sungura vibe, which has been compromised by the rise of Zimdancehall. The musician said he chose to collaborate with Zhakata on a song titled "Murombo Munhu" because he wanted a different flavour. Zhakata's traditional lead guitar is outstanding on the song while his soothing voice puts the icing on the cake. "Zhakata is one of the most-experienced musicians in the country and he agreed to feature on this song. His contribution makes the song different from others. It has some elements of Zora music and that is the variety that I was looking for," said Bishop Juru. "Murombo Munhu" has social commentary lyrics that castigate rich people that look down upon the poor. The song says dirty work is done by the poor to make the rich richer yet the latter often oppress the former. Another touching song is "Fish Bonga" that chronicles the difficulties that people go through to make ends meet. He takes an example of a fishmonger who goes into rivers and dams infested with crocodiles and other dangerous water creatures to catch fish for sale. It is about how people risk their lives to put food on the table. On a similar note of making sacrifices to get happiness, Bishop Juru assumes the role of a man who is ready to do anything to get love from a woman of his dreams on the title-track "Mupunga Werudo". "Ndirimutadzi" fuses an old apostolic chorus with new lyrics to give a refreshing touch to the song. Other songs on the album are "Ndafuratira" and "Samere" that are also laden with social commentary lyrics. Bishop Juru said he will tour many parts of the country to market the album since his songs will speak to different people's situations.