Lilongwe — Marriage Education and Research Network (MERN) will host a reality show known as 'Nankungwi' on February 10, 2018 at Kamuzu College of Nursing in Lilongwe and March 10, 2018 at M-Theater in Blantyre with an aim of addressing relationship and marriage issues in the country. Director for MERN, Daniel Chibwana who is also relationship coach and the host of the show, confirmed to Malawi News Agency (Mana) about the show saying the event is aimed to bring awareness to the country on better solutions to various marital issues that many people are currently facing. "Many families and relationships are facing different issues concerning lack of decision making, anger management skills and pre- marriage education, so we have thought it wise to bring solutions to these issues," said Chibwana. He added that, during the show he would be answering various questions relating to marriage and relationships. Chibwana also said the patrons would interact with different guests from all walks of life who have successful relationship and marriage life stories as one way of educating and inspiring people who have problems in their relationships and marriages. "The audience will be given a chance to put their issues on the floor to help the guest couple who have gone through the same issue assist in solving the matter," he said. He also said the show in Lilongwe would be spiced up by trio Marvelous Deeds while in Blantyre the patrons would be entertained by female gospel artist, Eliza Mponya. Chibwana said the guest couple in Lilongwe will be Reverend David and Mrs. Chifungo while in Blantyre the guest couple will be Bishop Chris and Mrs. Thoko Suya. He also said the show would involve counselors and psychologists. However he indicated that other guests would be a surprise to the patrons. According to him the show targets individuals from 16 years of age and above from all parts of the country regardless of their religion, ethnicity, social status, profession and educational back ground. Chibwana believes that relationship and marriage skills education is a better way of solving marital issues that many people are currently facing in the country. He said their organization provides independent and God centered guidance and counseling in relationships, families, marriage and pre-marriage education, individual and group issues such as addiction and issues that employees are grappling with in the companies. He also said the program is currently being beamed Wednesday on Pentecostal Life Television (PLTV). Chibwana urged people who are married, dating, who have just proposed and also who are single to patronize the show saying it would uplift their marital life.