President, Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and the Chairman, UBA Plc /Founder of The Tony Elumelu Foundation will join other outstanding personalities in business, finance and the economy as special guests and speaker at the only Federal Government of Nigeria's officially endorsed oil and gas event- the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS): an African Petroleum Technology and Business Conference (APTC) scheduled for Abuja from 19th to 23rd February 2018 . Confirmed international guests to grace the event include; Secretary-General, the Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF), Seyed Mohammad Hossein Adeli; Secretary-General, International Energy Forum (IEF), Dr. Sun Xiansheng; Secretary-General, Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), HE Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo. The summit, according to the organisers, will be declared open by President Muhammadu Buhari, on Monday, February 19, 2018 at 10.00am. A major feature of this summit is the Honourable Minister of State for Petroleum's Session with the sub-theme' The 7 Big Wins: Short and Medium Term Priorities to Grow Nigeria's Oil & Gas Industry (2015-2019) taking place on Tuesday 20th February as open discussions on how oil and gas sector should respond dynamically to reposition the national economy , ramp up production, reduce costs, foster efficiency and to boost the non-oil contribution to export earnings and government revenue. The panellists that include Chairman, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry - Oil Producers Trade Section (LCCI-OPTS)/Chairman, Shell Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor; Chairman, SPE Nigeria Council/Deputy Managing Director (Technical), Addax Petroleum Development Co. Limited, Chikezie Nwosu, Managing Director, Niger Delta Petroleum Development Company Limited, Dr. Layi Fatona, and President, the Nigerian Academy of Engineering, Engr. J. Olu Maduka will identify next steps to take in moving forward with Strategic Adaptation to Environmental Shocks, Turbulence and Radical Institutional change.