Kenyan actor Nick Mutuma has been forced to eat humble pie and apologise for raffling feathers on social media with a tweet admonishing those going through hard times in January. It all started with a tweet from the Shuga actor telling off those over 25 years talking about 'Njaanuary'. I unfollow anyone over 25 and talking about 'Njanuary'. By now you should know how to save Bruh... -- Nick Mutuma (@nickmutuma) January 5, 2018 But the tweet was not kindly taken by Kenyans on Twitter who trolled the actor with free advise on humility. Some people get a 6 figure salary but they rarely use/see any of this cash, due to the number of responsibilities they have at home (mostly ushago). So let guys have peace please!! Thank you. -- Tole (@TeeMwangemi) January 5, 2018 So by un-following them, you'll be teaching them a lesson in saving? You so full of yourself. Be humble... -- Kilo_10.750 (@kilo_ni_zile_2) January 5, 2018 So Nick, I am curious how do you know their age? You've been collecting data the past year on Social Media? -- Martin Maina Mwangi™ (@martomwangi) January 5, 2018 As long as you don't save for them, they have a right to talk about "Njanuary" all they want -- Azra (@slyazra) January 5, 2018 All the guys you follow have been verified, meaning they are most probably rich or middle class. No one on your TL will even type Njaanuary. -- Koech Chepkole (@chepkole) January 5, 2018 Be humble and learn don't assume they don't know how to save when they have nothing to save -- bobo (@ImeldaNjoroge) January 5, 2018 Ignorance is assuming everyone had something to save for January... . even the 56% unemployed. This kind of thinking is so 1900 -- #NyarGemAndaroKwonGiMitoo (@OnyangoRachael) January 6, 2018 First of all following a celebrity is not employment and secondly you can only save from money that you already have -- Coll!ns 🇰🇪 (@King_Ifrica) January 5, 2018 Nick Mutuma in the error of Internet info is available, ignorance has no excuse at all. Spare us your backward reasoning and accept the fact that 54% of youth are unemployed. Kama uko Na kazi shukuru mola. -- Vitalis Omboyi (@Vitalis_Omboyi) January 6, 2018 ... .do you understand that majority of Kenyans are of the Sandwich generation above 25... They got numerous responsibilities. Clearly huna clue... Wacha ufala!!! -- KimtuKieusi© (@Kimtu_Kieusi) January 6, 2018 In his defense, Mutuma, who has more than 34,000 followers, but only follows 1,196 people - mostly entertainers - said the tweet was meant for one of his friends who he had watched party the whole of December only to complain about tough financial situation in January. That tweet was subtle shade for one of my mates who I'd watched partying hard through out December only to complain about a tough financial situation in Jan. It wasn't a shot at anyone and I honestly didn't think it would go South this quick. Sorry if it rubbed you the wrong way -- Nick Mutuma (@nickmutuma) January 6, 2018