To vote in M-Net's new Dancing with the Stars South Africa starting on Sunday 4 February at 17:00, viewers will have to register to vote before the show starts. M-Net (DStv 101) says viewers can now start to register to vote at www.mnet.tv/dwtssavote with registration to vote that only needs to be done once. Registration will close on a Sunday at 16:30 before a couple gets eliminated, but people who don't register, will get more chances to register after a the live results show of a specific week has ended. Only registered voters will be able to cast votes during the Sunday live shows that is produced by Rapid Blue. Voting will take place during the live show every Sunday and will open at 17:00 and close at 19:15. M-Net says it decided on a registered voting system to make the process more secure and to enable a live results show later the same evening of which the voting tally is secure and above suspicion. Registered voters will be able to cast votes - up to 100 - during the vote period, with voting for Dancing with the Stars SA that can be done through mobile devices and the web. To register for Dancing with the Stars SA , people must visit www.mnet.tv/dwtssavote and click on "register". People must enter their cellphone number in the international format, for instance +27731234567 and a preferred password. A One Time Pin (OTP) will be sent through SMS that people must enter to verify the registration process. Voting will be free but data costs will apply. Voting for the show happens on the same site, where people, after they've registered, can simply sign in and then select the couple(s) they want to vote for. Voting on Dancing with the Stars SA will be a combination of the audience voting and the judges' score - a 50/50 split. Viewers will be able to vote between 17:00 and 19:15 after which no more votes will be counted. The voting verification process will run between 19:15 and 19:50 on Sundays with the results that will be announced during the live Dancing with the Stars SA results show on M-Net that will be broadcast between 20:00 and 20:30 on Sunday nights. M-Net's schedule from this Sunday evening will look like this until the finale at the end of April: 17:00 Dancing with the Stars SA live performance show 19:00 Carte Blanche 20:00 Dancing with the Stars SA live results show 20:30 Sunday night movie Eliminations will start from the third episode of Dancing with the Stars SA on Sunday 18 February. M-Net says once the elimination process starts, someone will definitely be going home and leave the show on a weekly basis. M-Net says that in case there is an electronic problem and the voting technology or internet fail during episodes, that the production does have a back-up plan ready but isn't going to reveal how that will work unless something happens. Source: Channel24