Abuja — It is important that one starts this piece from the onset by acknowledging that the present government made significant achievements in checkmating security challenges that threaten National Security since it came to office. The fact should also be appreciated that the President Muhammadu Buhari Administration inherited some badly handled security challenges at the time it took over. Despite this, tremendous progress has been made in tackling some of the seemingly intractable security challenges that have haunted the nation for some time. The most outstanding achievements of the Buhari Administration in the security sector are, the decimating of the insurgency in the North East, degrading the militancy in the Niger Delta, and reducing incidents of kidnapping and hostage taking across the country. Other noticeable achievements include, ensuring inter-religious harmony, creating conducive atmosphere for peaceful co-existence and pursuit of legitimate business. It is in the light of these, the government was truly said to be on the verge of achieving reasonable level of normalcy on the security scene in the country before the eruption of incessant attacks by supposedly Fulani herdsmen in parts of the country. Attacks by herdsmen without doubt have become the most potent threat to national security in the last couple of years. What makes the attacks by herdsmen very disturbing are, the frequency, the level of destruction and sheer brutality. The development in almost all cases is characterized by high casualty rate and massive displacement of communities. One can say with certainty that never has the country experienced this level of destruction and social dislocation. What however is so disturbing with the development is how the attacks in almost all cases took place under the eyes of security agencies. The attacks by herdsmen are without doubt comparable to the insurgency in the North East. This is the reason why fears are being expressed that the nation may be trading on a very dangerous ground. As at date, there has being wanton killings by herdsmen in Benue, Niger, Taraba, Kaduna and Plateau States that have resulted in massive displacement of people and loss of lives. The attacks are unprecedented when assessed on the basis of the frequency, the casualty and sheer brutality. The fallout naturally is huge humanitarian crisis in almost all the states affected. There is the belief that, decisive action must be taken to ensure the wanton killings by the armed herdsmen are contained as the threat is capable of snowballing into a serious threat that could set the country ablaze. This is occasioned by the fact that, the threats have gone beyond the borders of the Northern states. It should be pointed out that, the dangers the activities of the armed herdsmen has serious implications to the corporate existence of the nation. The country at the moment is facing myriads of challenges that have huge implications to its corporate existence. These challenges include, calls for re-structuring the country and separatist threats to pull out of the union. Not the least unhelpful are also, the threats constituted by the insurgents in the North East despite the huge successes made in tackling the menace. Other security challenges of concern include, the economic down turn and harsh conditions of living, as well as, the lack of employment. In short, this is the worst time for the government to be confronted with other issues like the activities of the herdsmen. No country would overlook such acts of lawlessness by supposedly herdsmen or treat it with kid gloves considering the fragile nature of the country at the moment. As pointed out elsewhere, the government and specifically, the national ecurity apparatus should do everything possible to neutralize the threat. What should also be of concern at the moment is seeking for solutions instead of whipping up of inciting sentiments and misguided accusations. A careful assessment of threats to national security reveal the activities of the armed herdsmen more than any other security challenge in the country at the moment constitutes, the most dangerous. In the last one year, the activities of the armed herdsmen have resulted in unimaginable destruction and displacement of many communities and loss of thousands of lives. The development as pointed out earlier has added to the humanitarian challenges in the country. Equally very disturbing is, the fact that, the activities of the herdsmen have without doubt aggravated the feeling of mutual suspicion between host communities and herdsmen. The herdsmen who before now peacefully coexisted with communities all over the country are now perceived to be enemies. Communities in the North and elsewhere never had serious disagreements with Fulani herdsmen in the past. It was a common practice to invite them to stay on the farms in communities after the harvest for purpose of enriching the farmlands. All these seem to have been lost due to the ongoing attacks. Also, seen in the context of peaceful coexistence the attacks by herdsmen are setting the stage for dangerous polarization of the country along ethno ethnic and religious divides. Compounding the rather fragile situation is, the utterances of some indivduals threatening to declare herdsmen persona-non-grata in their states. Equally very dangerous is how some unscrupulous persons have continued to fuel very disruptive sentiments for cheap political goals. The call by some politicians for their people to be armed and the mobilization of ethnic militia is to say the least very unfortunate. Granted, that the security establishment have failed in some cases but regardless, the calling for self defence is unjustified and smacks of subversive intent. Such things only happen in failed states. I have in the past pointed out that calls for self-help in any given situation is very dangerous simply because this, encourages the emergence of extremist groups that will be used as vanguards against the state. The other consequence of the attacks by herdsmen is the threats of arms proliferation. The situation has one more brought to the fore the dangers inherent in the proliferation of dangerous weapons in the country. The emergence of armed militia in whatever form or guise will have unprecedented destabilizing effects on national security. This is why the call for self defence must be treated with all seriousness. Also using the issue to justify demands for restructuring the nation in my humble opinion is absurd. It shows those behind call for restructuring will use any exercise as justification for the demand. One wonders why these calls were not made when insurgents took over parts of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States. I really don't know how restructuring of the country will solve the problem of the menace of herdsmen attacks. The country must therefore be careful with some of the views been expressed. The Fulanis like every other Nigerian has the right to reside anywhere and move freely in any part of the country. The constitution guarantees them this. To be continued... Gadzama is a former Director General of State Security Service (SSS). He wrote this piece from Abuja.