Kampala — A South African-based music promoter has sued local musician Joseph Mayanja alias Dr Jose Chameleone seeking to recover Shs53m after the artiste allegedly failed to perform at a concert for which he had been paid. In the case filed in the High Court yesterday, Ms Zaina Muwonge, who also trades as Sezana Promotions, claims that in 2015, she entered into a gentleman's agreement with Chameleone, who agreed to perform at a concert titled 'Wale Wale' in South Africa on his terms and conditions. According to court documents, Ms Muwonge claims she communicated to Chameleone about the concerts, which would take place in the cities of Durban, East London, Pretoria and Cape Town, respectively as indicated in the fliers that she printed in a bid to advertise. "In fulfilment of my obligation, I went ahead and effected part payment of Shs15m to the defendant (Chameleone)," reads the suit, in part. Ms Muwonge claims that towards the due date of the concerts, she further paid more than Shs1m at the request of the defendant to enable him and his entire crew process emergency passports after the said documents had allegedly been stolen. The court documents indicate that pursuant to the agreement and in fulfilment of her contractual obligation, she paid more than Shs11m for purposes of transporting the defendants and his crew to South Africa. Ms Muwonge adds that she went ahead to book for hotels that would provide accommodation to Chameleone and his entire crew but to her utter shock, the singer switched -off his phone on the eve of his flight, making efforts to trace him futile. She says that, however in 2016, Chameleone called her, apologising and promised to make up for the frustration he had caused her in 2015. Ms Muwonge says in 2016, basing on Chamelelone's promises, she planned for new concerts still in the three cities and went ahead to pay for hotels to accommodate the singer with his entire crew. However, Muwonge contends that Chameleone, for the second time, played the same game and switched off his phone on the eve of his flight. Through her lawyers of Lukwago and company advocates, Ms Muwonge is seeking to recover her money and orders compelling Chameleone to pay her damages for breach of contract, damaged reputation and property, including chairs and banners.