President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, As former U.S. Ambassadors to 48 African countries, we write to express our deep concern regarding reports of your recent remarks about African countries and to attest to the importance of our partnerships with most of the fifty-four African nations. Africa is a continent of great human talent and rich diversity, as well as extraordinary beauty and almost unparalleled natural resources. It is also a continent with deep historical ties with the United States. As American ambassadors abroad we have seen Africa's complex and rich cultures, awe-inspiring resilience, and breathtaking generosity and compassion. Even as some nations have faced challenges, we have counted among our contacts dynamic entrepreneurs, gifted artists, committed activists, passionate conservationists, and brilliant educators. We learned of novel solutions to complex problems, helped American companies find partners critical to their success, and counted on African military and intelligence officials who often assumed real risks to help achieve outcomes critical to our shared security. We know that respectful engagement with these countries is a vital part of protecting our own national interests. The United States of America is safer, healthier, more prosperous, and better equipped to solve problems that confront all of humanity when we work with, listen to, and learn from our African partners. We also know that the entire world is richer because of the contributions of Africans, including the many Americans of African descent. It was one of the greatest honors of our lives to represent the United States of America abroad. It was also a privilege to live in and learn from the diverse and spectacular countries of Africa. We hope that you will reassess your views on Africa and its citizens, and recognize the important contributions Africans and African Americans have made and continue to make to our country, our history, and the enduring bonds that will always link Africa and the United States. Sincerely Mark L. Asquino - Equatorial Guinea Shirley E. Barnes - Madagascar William (Mark) Bellamy - Kenya Eric D. Benjaminson - Gabon, Sao Tome and Principe Michele Thoren Bond - Lesotho Parker W. Borg - Mali Aurelia E. Brazeal - Kenya, Ethiopia Pamela Bridgewater - Benin, Ghana Reuben E. Brigety II - African Union Kenneth L. Brown - Ivory Coast, Ghana, Republic of the Congo Steven A. Browning - Malawi, Uganda Edward P. Brynn - Burkina Faso, Ghana John Campbell - Nigeria Katherine Canavan - Botswana Timothy Carney - Sudan Johnnie Carson - Uganda, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Phillip Carter - Ivory Coast, Guinea-Conakry Herman Cohen - Senegal, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Frances D. Cook - Burundi, Cameroon Walter L. Cutler - Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tunisia Jeffrey S. Davidow - Zambia Ruth A. Davis - Benin, Director General of the Foreign Service Scott H. DeLisi - Uganda, Eritrea Christopher Dell - Angola, Zimbabwe, Deputy Ambassador at AFRICOM Harriet Elam-Thomas - Senegal, Guinea-Bissau Gregory W. Engle - Togo James F. Entwistle - Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo Robert A. Flaten - Rwanda Robert S. Ford - Algeria Patrick Gaspard - South Africa Michelle D. Gavin - Botswana Donald H. Gips - South Africa Gordon Gray - Tunisia Robert E. Gribben - Central African Republic, Rwanda Patricia McMahon Hawkins - Togo Karl Hofmann - Togo Patricia M. Haslach - Ethiopia Genta Hawkins Holmes - Namibia Robert G. Houdek - Uganda, Eritrea Michael S. Hoza - Cameroon Vicki J. Huddleston - Madagascar, Mali Janice L. Jacobs - Senegal Howard F. Jeter - Botswana, Nigeria Dennis C. Jett - Mozambique Jimmy J. Kolker - Burkina Faso, Uganda Edward Gibson Lanpher - Zimbabwe Dawn M. Liberi - Burundi Princeton N. Lyman - Nigeria, South Africa Jackson McDonald - The Gambia, Guinea James D. McGee - Swaziland, Madagascar, Comoros, Zimbabwe Roger A. Meece - Malawi, Democratic Republic of the Congo Gillian Milovanovic - Mali Susan D. Page - South Sudan David Passage - Botswana Edward J. Perkins - Liberia, South Africa, Director General of the Foreign Service Robert C. Perry - Central African Republic Thomas R. Pickering - Nigeria Jo Ellen Powell - Mauritania Nancy Powell - Uganda, Ghana Anthony Quainton - Central African Republic Elizabeth Raspolic - Gabon, Sao Tome and Principe Charles A. Ray - Zimbabwe Fernando E. Rondon - Madagascar, Comoros Richard A. Roth - Senegal, Guinea-Bissau Robin Renee Sanders - Republic of the Congo, Nigeria Mattie R. Sharpless - Central African Republic David H. Shinn - Burkina Faso, Ethiopia A. Ellen Shippy - Malawi George M. Staples - Rwanda, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Director General of the Foreign Service Linda Thomas-Greenfield - Liberia, Director General of the Foreign Service, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Jacob Walles - Tunisia Lannon Walker - Senegal, Nigeria, Ivory Coast Melissa F. Wells - Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Zaire (Congo-Kinshasa) Joseph C. Wilson - Gabon, Sao Tome and Principe Frank G. Wisner - Zambia, Egypt John M. Yates - Cape Verde, Benin, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Permanent Charge (3 years) Zaire, Special Envoy for Somalia Mary Carlin Yates - Burundi, Ghana, Sudan Johnny Young - Sierra Leone, Togo