After the fall of Amin, severe famine struck Uganda in 1980. That was the first time I saw American relief delivered to schools, institutions and villages labelled "USAID a gift from the American people." The American based International Development Association delivered textbooks and scholastic materials to schools and institutions. This writer, who studied at Katerema Primary School, in Tororo District under trees, is a beneficiary of America's philanthropy. After reading this article, I want to answer this simple quiz by ticking the correct alternative. What is a school? A. a building where children learn. B. a building with good furniture. C. any environment where there is a teacher and instruction materials. I have discovered that the darkest form of ignorance is not lack of education but failure to understand the purpose for which one is educated. When we were taught foreign languages such as French, German, English and Latin, we thought the imperialists were imposing their culture on us. But time has come when we need to send foreign envoys or get good jobs in some countries but cannot because of language barrier, hence the scramble for the English speaking ones-Britain and the US. America's benevolence has given us the wrong perception of a land of free manna, yet research shows its people spend the most hours at work followed by the Japanese. More still, the American government funds the government and many NGOs in the country. It is disgusting that they have to set conditions before we can complete stipulated projects gainfully. Officials in our country have been found wanting as they rush to buy more suits, expensive cars and so forth with GAVI and NUSAF funds intended for the needy! Who cannot get angry when he gives Shs500 to a hungry beggar only to find him sipping a sachet of waragi? Why won't an American businessmen such as Donald Trump get mad, when as a new figure in the White House, he discovers that the people who receive funds for drugs, hospitals and schools fail to use them and finally want to settle in America? A Nigerian sage Benson Idahosa once said, a lizard in Africa cannot become a crocodile in America nor can a rat become an elephant! We are living in the most fascinating time in human history when people forget the use of clothes and prefer to walk naked like Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. BBC website once posted a video of a nude restaurant in Paris. Tourists come to Africa's forests in droves to see monkeys, baboons, elephants, gorillas. They find solace where there are no abortion clinics, mass shootings, same sex marriage and no crime of animal trafficking among the citizens of the wild. They also flee from harsh winters when life is very expensive and pollution from factories and automobiles to sun bathe and enjoy fresh supply of oxygen. They feast on plenty of fresh fruits available on road sides and in markets 24/7 even without refrigerators to preserve them. Many of our African brothers, having studied about New York and watched soaps and action-packed Swazzenegar movies, long to live there after completing university. After getting sponsorship to study medicine they would rather abandon parents and relatives to die of disease than miss these comforts. In which universe do we find creatures of that kind? Heaven, earth or hell? A Jewish doctor left the comfort of America and came to Mbale Regional Hospital to freely operate on my sister and many others while lying on mats. She was discharged from Mulago with tears oozing through her nose after the 2006 Kalerwe Church accident. Is a hospital a state of art building where doctors are paid in pound sterling on any place where a trained person can operate on a patient and administer treatment like the good Samaritan did? Mr Okecha is an ambassador of Jesus Christ.