Lobu — Vice President, Mr Mokgweetsi Masisi has urged all those involved in Lobu farm to set pace by hatching new ideas to resuscitate the farm and enrich the small stock industry in the country. Speaking at the opening of a two day Special Rural Development Council (SRDC) meeting at Lobu farm recently, he pointed out that the dialogues around the 10 3000 hectares ranch entailed further discussions on strategic map for the revitalisation of the ranch. The meeting was intended to appreciate work done to revive Lobu farm following the last sitting deliberations held last year. Mr Masisi also said the discussion would be based on issues around the certification and branding of the Kgalagadi small stock products that could compete in the global market. Furthermore, he said the discussions will help to draw lessons from farmers on best farming practices that could be adopted at Lobu and cluster villages in the area. For his part, Minister of Local Government and Rural Development also the deputy chairperson of Rural Development Council, Mr Slumber Tsogwane, shared the sentiments with the Vice President, encouraging all stakeholders to be result-driven by ensuring that they deliver proficiently in their portfolios. In his comment, Minister of Agricultural Development and Food Security, Mr Patrick Ralotsia said in order to make progress in the resuscitation of the farm his ministry will stock Brahman's for the enhancement of breeding quality. Minister for Presidential Affairs, Governance and Public Administration, Mr Eric Molale also highlighted that small stock farming was one of the leading assistance packages meant for the up-liftment of people's lives. He said as a result, it deserved thoughtful urgency that will in future grow the economic baseline. In support of the resuscitation plan, Minister Molale said, through poverty eradication programme, 100 ewes with four bucks will be procured before end of March, as well as 100 sheep's coupled with four rams that will cost about P2 million. In addition, he said the Ministry of Youth Empowerment, Sport and Culture Development has pledged P5 million to facilitate farmer training on various disciplines to improve the quality of their flocks especially small stock beneficiaries. In his appreciation remarks, Kgalagadi South legislator, Mr Frans Van Der Westhuizen said small stock was beneficial in their area. He said through the comprehensive resuscitation plan, their area will not miss the opportunity to tap on that chance that would have adverse positive effects as it would back government to reduce its importation bill on small stock products. Source : BOPA