It's official. Ugandan socialite Zarina (Zari) Hassan has dumped her Tanzanian musician husband Diamond Platnumz. Zari, who bore two children with the musician, announced the divorce to her 3.6 million followers on Instagram on Valentine's Day. In the message, she accused the 28 year-old Diamond of 'constant' infidelity. "There have been multiple rumours some with evidence floating around in ALL SORTS of media in regards to Diamond's constant cheating and sadly I have decided to end my relationship with Diamond as my respect, integrity, dignity and well being cannot be compromised," Zari stated. CO-PARENTING The duo will however continue co-parenting. "We are separating as partners and not as parents," she stated. "This doesn't reduce me as a self-made individual, and as a caring mother, and the boss lady you have all come to know." Understand that this is very difficult for me to do. There have been multiple rumors some with evidence floating around in ALL SORTS of media in regards to Diamond's constant cheating and sadly I have decided to end my relationship with Diamond, as my RESPECT, INTEGRITY, DIGNITY & WELL BEING cannot be compromised. We are separating as partners but not as parents. This doesn't reduce me as a self-made individual, and as a caring mother, and the boss lady you have all come to know. I will continue to build as a mogul, i will inspire the world of women to become boss ladies too. I will teach my four sons to always respect women, and teach my daughter what self-respect means. Unlike many, I've been in the entertainment industry for 12 years, and through all my challenges I came out a victor because I am a winner, and so are all of you Zari supporters. HAPPY VALENTINE'S A post shared by Zari (@zarithebosslady) on Feb 14, 2018 at 10:17am PST Diamond, renowned for hit songs including 'Ukimowna, Number one, Nana and Salome, met Zari in 2014 on a flight. The romance sparked after Zari had asked for a selfie photo. A few months later, Zari would dump her now deceased husband Ugandan tycoon Ivan Ssemwanga, the father to her three other kids, in South Africa and relocate to Dar es Salaam to live with Diamond who is seven years younger. SCANDAL AFTER SCANDAL All seemed to be going well between the couple until late 2016 when Diamond began to be linked to scandal after scandal on his infidelity in the media. The couple were also said to have drifted apart following Zari's frequent trips to South Africa to manage her late estranged husband's assets in which she is a trustee. Diamond is yet to officially comment on the divorce even as speculation persists that Zari has already relocated to South Africa.