The remains of Moses Ssekibogo, popularly known as Mowzey Radio, were finally rested yesterday at his mother's home in Kagga Nakawuka at 4pm, bringing to an end three days of both grieving and fanfare to celebrate the music megastar. Earlier, a disagreement on where Mowzey should be buried was amicably settled. The contention was whether the Goodlyfe Crew artiste was to be buried in Jinja where his father stays or at Kagga where he wanted to be buried and where his mother stays. After a heated up meeting at Katwe Police Station between the father, mother Jane Kasubo, and events promoter Balaam Byarugahare, among other people, it was agreed Mowzey's wish be granted that his remains be rested at Kagga. But this family feud did little to dampen the enthusiasm of thousands of his fans who made their way to Kagga to bid farewell to arguably Uganda's biggest vocalist and song writer. Musicians, politicians, actors, comedians, socialites, businessmen and ordinary folk all endeavoured to be part of the momentous end of an illustrious safari. No doubt, his grand sendoff goes down in history as one of the biggest in Uganda going by the coverage and huge number of people who mourned his death both in and outside Uganda. Popular Kenyan musician and Starehe Constituency Member of Parliament, Charles Njagua Kanyi, aka Jaguar, also took the first plane to Uganda yesterday to bid farewell to Mowzey who died Thursday morning in Kampala. His alleged killer remains at large. By 8am, long queues had formed, snaking their ways to the burial site despite the fact that the musician was slated to be buried at 4pm. Amid tight security, Mowzey's remains arrived at its resting place at 10am to wailing while others held their chins in their palms. One of Mowzey's partners, Jennifer Robinson, and one of his sisters walked in front of the casket with Mowzey's portraits. Accessing the venue was a hassle and one had to be a journalist or recognisable celebrity to be allowed inside the barricaded area where the body was rested. The rest of the mourners gazed on from a distance. While many came to send off a friend, others used the opportunity to do some brisk business selling anything that could get them quick bucks. Right from the main roadside, people did quick sales of calendars, portraits of the departed, tags, local beer, meat and assorted drinks and eats. Another celebrity death that received similar reaction but not to the same grand scale was one of Ivan Semwanga, who passed on last year. But Mowzey's death on February 1 received an unprecedented social and traditional media attention across Africa proving how big an influence he was on the music industry. Hundreds turned up at Case Hospital once it was announced he had passed on. Yet hundreds more attended his vigil at Neverland in Makindye where he lived with his singing partner Douglas Mayanja, alias Weasel, before thousands more turned up at Kololo airstrip for the viewing of the body on Friday. National Theatre has always hosted vigil for people in the arts, but because Mowzey was a mega star, the organising committee had to ask the government for permission to shift the vigil to the more spacious airstrip. At Kololo airstrip, musicians mounted a guard of honour for his casket as a sign of respect. Artistes, including Bebe Cool, Jose Chameleon, Angela Kalule, Iryn Namubiru, Eddy Kenzo, Sam and Sophie Gombya, and Dr Hilderman, among others, formed the guard as Mowzey's body was being placed at Kololo ceremonial grounds for public viewing. Along with the thousands who had come to pay their last respects, the celebrities clapped in unison as he was being stretched to where he was viewed from. A stage was set up where musicians from all walks of life sang Mowzey's hits while others relived their brief encounters with him. On the other end of the venue, bouncers were engaged in a tag of war with the crowds who wanted to have a last look at the body. In the process, people lost items ranging from phones, shoes and handbags while others sustained injuries, but none cared and were undeterred. Mowzey Radio leaves behind three children, two from musician Lilian Mbabazi and one from another partner, Jenifer Robinson. He was born in 1983 to Jane Kasubo, with little known about his father. Fare-thee-well Mowzey.