Gaborone — Ambassador of Japan to Botswana, Mr Kozo Takeda says it is pleasing to learn that there are 49 members of Friends of Japan, comprising of Batswana students who studied in Japan through various scholarships and exchange programmes. Speaking at the 5th Friends of Japan reception at the embassy residence on February 23, Mr Takeda said some of the students were still studying and living in Japan, while most were now working in various sectors in Botswana, making good use of their experience from Japan. He said he expected the friends who had acquired advanced and specialised knowledge and skills to be leaders who would utilise the expertise and also contribute not only to Botswana, but also to relations between both countries and the African continent. He said relations between countries were to be established based not only on political and economic partnerships. He said people to people exchange and cultural exchanges were other significant factors to deepen mutual understanding. He said he expected members of Friends of Japan to work hard as a bridge between the two countries. The ambassador wished three Batswana students farewell who acquired Japanese government scholarship. They are Mr Admore Mpuang who will study disaster prevention at Kyoto University, Ms Annah Modisenyane who will study architecture and building science at Tohoku University and Mr Mbinda Chidzani who is going to study for an MBA at the International University of Japan. Meanwhile, one of the recipients, Mr Mpuang said he was excited for having acquired the scholarship which would see him staying two and half years because his course also included a six-month in Japanese language study. Mr Mpuang who works at Botswana Geo Science Institute said they were drawn from an initial pool of 20 applicants. This year, the reception had many guests as different Japanese government-affiliated and Japanese private companies operating in Botswana were present. They included representatives from JICA/JOCV Botswana office, members of JICA Alumni Association of Botswana, JOCMEC Botswana Geologic Remote Sensing Centre, Kansai Plascon, MKGB, Shaft Deep and SONS of AFRICA. Source : BOPA