The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has described the alleged and reported Runway 18R burglary attempt on the Cargo Hold of Air Peace as unfounded A statement signed and issued yesterday by the general manager Public Relations of NCAA, Sam Adurogboye said the conclusion was arrived at, after the Regulatory Authority reviewed all the reports from the relevant agencies concerning the incident and it was unproven. Adurogboye explained that "Last week, there were reports that the Pilot-in-Command (PIC) of Air Peace Flight no. APK 7138 with Aircraft no. 5N-BUJ had alerted the Lagos Control Tower that the Aircraft's AFT Cargo Compartment has been opened. According to the Pilot in his report to the Tower, he noticed that the Cargo Compartment light came up for 15 seconds and went off. This means someone has opened the compartment's door. The Air Traffic Controller on duty confirmed receiving the report at about 1933hrs (1833GMT). In line with Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs), Aviation Security personnel were at the Holding Point of Runway 18R monitoring the departure/take off of both Air Peace and Arik Air aircraft. The PIC alarm triggered an immediate response. The Escort team overtook the Arik aircraft for a more proximate field look and access to the Air Peace Aircraft. "On full speed, with the full lights on, no person(s) was found within the vicinity of the aircraft. Importantly, the Arik aircraft which was on queue immediately after the Air Peace aircraft was similarly put on observation at this point. The Arik Air aircraft also had its full complement of lights on towards the Air Peace aircraft having being aware of his counterpart's conversation with the Tower. With benefit of this full view, neither movement nor any sign of person(s) was sighted around the aircraft". In a swift reacting to NCAA's statement, the management of Air Peace has equally noted that the airline remained unwilling to be drawn into unnecessary controversy with agencies that ought to have been jolted into action from their slumber by patriotic information it gave on the incident.