The government of the United Kingdom (UK) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding in which it has pledged to give Ugandan courts $500,000 (about Shs2b) to fight the rampant corruption. The $500,000 is going to be provided by the British government's department of Internal Development to strengthen Uganda's anti-corruption response. The donation by the UK government is expected to be used to automate the Anti-Corruption Court, a leading court in Uganda that adjudicates corruption cases. Other courts to benefit from this donation include; the Court of Appeal, other High Court divisions and the Supreme Court. The British High Commissioner to Uganda, Mr Peter West signed the memorandum on behalf of the UK government while Chief Justice Bart Katureebe, signed on behalf of Ugandan Judiciary. While signing the memorandum, the British envoy said it is important to give people confidence in the justice system and that the donation that they are to give Ugandan courts, will help the Judiciary do its job more efficiently. On his part, the Chief Justice said the Judiciary is committed to fighting corruption and that the fight can't be won in one day but they are on course. "Fighting corruption in the Judiciary and improving its image is something that cannot be done in an instant period but it will eventually be tackled fully," the Chief Justice said. The Chief Justice added that the intervention by the UK government to have the courts automated will ensure transparency for all parties involved in the cases, which automation will help to do away with systematic corruption. About a month ago, the Inspector General of Government (IGG) in her annual corruption report, named 82 institutions and districts as the most accused of corruption. The report titled: 'Bi-annual Inspectorate of Government Performance report to Parliament' submitted to Parliament, named district administration/local governments, Municipal and Town Councils, head teachers (primary and secondary), District Service Commissions and Sub county as the top five government institutions most complained about.