President Mnangagwa has promoted Air Force of Zimbabwe (AFZ) Group Captain Peter Zimondi to the rank of Air Commodore. He was promoted in line with Section 15 (3) B of the Defence Act, Chapter 11.02 with effect from February 3. Air Commodore Zimondi becomes the substantive director-general Administration in AFZ, a position he had been holding in acting capacity when he was Group Captain. Conferring the rank to the senior officer, AFZ Commander Air Marshal Elson Moyo said he deserved the recognition because he successfully exemplified himself. "This promotion was not done just because you are supposed to be promoted. There are other group captains who were also aspiring to the same rank. It was on merit," he said. "Promotions come with greater responsibilities and the span of control is actually increased. As an organisation, we believe that you are capable and you are going to deliver the expectations of the organisations. The promotion comes with added responsibilities and you are expected to provide leadership. I am quite confident that you should be able to meet the challenges which come with the rank." Air Marshal Moyo said the force is gender sensitive as the nation is a signatory to the Sadc protocols where it is required to achieve about 30 percent gender balance within every organisation. "We are currently moving towards achieving the required quota and as you might be aware in this rank of Air Commodore we have a woman holding the position and currently attached to the National Defence University. "We have quite a number of ladies who have made it to the rank of Group Captain and a few more who should qualify very soon to make it to the senior rank so there is going to be more women in senior positions," he said. Speaking after the promotion, Air Commodore Peter Zimondi said he was grateful to the high command. "First of all I want to thank and congratulate the recently promoted senior air officers and in particular Air Marshal Elson Moyo. "I am very grateful for being promoted to the rank of Air Commodore and I want to believe that promotion is about deliverables and merit," he said.