The number of deaths so far recorded in Nigeria this year from Lassa fever should be a source of concern to any serious country. Already the disease has claimed 31 lives and the number keeps rising just as several others are currently undergoing treatment. Last week, the National Coordinator, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Chikwe Ihekweazu said at the opening ceremony of the National Executive Council meeting of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) in Abuja that among the deceased were 10 health workers. He said since the beginning of 2018, 107 suspected cases were recorded in Edo, Ondo, Bauchi, Nasarawa, Ebonyi, Anambra, Benue, Kogi, Imo and Lagos states. Ihekweazu said the situation resulted in serious emotional trauma, fear, anxiety and sometimes anger among stakeholders. The national coordinator said NCDC has distributed more Ribavirin drugs used in the treatment of the disease to the affected states than it had ever done in the past. He also said government alone might not be able to supply the needed drugs to all the affected persons in the country. It was high time stakeholders came together and addressed the challenges of hemorrhagic fevers including Lassa fever, Dr. Ihekweazu said. The Senate also commenced moves to probe the Lassa fever outbreak, just as it pledged to investigate steps taken so far by the Ministry of Health to curb its spread. Senate also urged the federal government to urgently provide the Centre with necessary equipment to enable it meet its responsibilities to Nigerians. Although Lassa fever has become an annual occurrence in the past few years, the number of those affected by the disease and those who have died this year have surpassed previous years, a development that calls for immediate action. It is a sign that something urgent needs to be done or that there is a need for a change in approach in handling the disease. Lassa fever is a viral haemorrhagic illness, caused by contact with food or household items contaminated with rodent urine or faeces. It is highly contagious and just a single case is already an epidemic. Unfortunately, Lassa fever management here has been anything but effective. Firstly, there is the lack of enough diagnostic centres across the country. A situation whereby every suspected case has to be sent to Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, Irrua, Edo State for diagnosis before treatment can commence is unacceptable. This delays treatment and reduces the of patients' chances of survival. Even if we cannot have a diagnostic centre in every state, at least many Teaching Hospitals and Federal Medical Centres should be equipped to test for the disease. Also, it was observed that some health workers contracted and died of the disease due to contact with patients. This mirrors the general situation in our hospitals where basic items are lacking. It is a common experience to visit our hospitals and see health personnel attend to patients without the necessary protective gears. That shouldn't be the case. Efforts should be made at providing all necessary items/equipment to secure health personnel while carrying out their duties. Another issue is the lack of Ribavirin drugs at health centres. Since the disease has become a yearly affair, there is no excuse for the lack of the drug. Government and all other stakeholders should work to ensure that the drug is available at all health centres and at affordable rates. Since prevention is better than cure, efforts should be intensified at controlling rat populations, since rat is the primary vector that transmits the disease. All citizens should try to check the invasion of their homes by this rodent. Citizens should as much as possible protect their food items from rodents. Grains should be properly stored and homes should be kept clean at all times. People should also avoid spreading food items to dry along the streets. State governments can help very much with massive campaigns to educate the people on the cause of Lassa fever and how it can be prevented or treated.