Johannesburg — THE multinational networking and telecommunications equipment and services company, Huawei, has outlined its commitment to accelerate digital upgrade in emerging markets. Ahead of the Mobile World Congress (MWC) in Spain, Huawei pledged to continue to cooperate with operators, local governments, and other industry partners on infrastructure initiatives, expanding ecosystem partnerships to introduce new services and delivering innovative solutions that bridge the digital divide across emerging markets. Access to the internet through fixed and mobile networks will soon become a basic right, with, in 2017, more than 450 million people connected to mobile internet, and more than 30 million families having access to broadband services. However, 3 billion people in the world still lack access, and 870 million do not even own mobile phones. Some 1,1 billion families still do not have broadband connections. Zhou Jianjun, Vice President of Huawei Carrier, says to capitalise on the vast opportunities in emerging markets, operators need to deliver a better scenario-based service and accelerate their return on investment (ROI). He says Huawei is focused on three core areas to help operators meet the burgeoning demands on their networks. "We are engaging with industry partners to build open, cooperative, and win-win industry ecosystems for ICT infrastructure, and creating business solutions to help operators deliver services that generate new revenue streams while simultaneously improving the quality of life in emerging markets." In Mongolia, Philippines, South Africa and Sri Lanka, wireless-to-the-x (WTTx) has provided the most cost-effective home broadband services. Over the course of one year, in Mongolia and Morocco, broadband connections are provided for 10 percent and 5 percent of families, respectively. In Saudi Arabia and Egypt, the traditional copper cables will be introduced to improve user experience. Meanwhile Huawei Consumer Business Group (CBG) on Monday unveiled the HUAWEI MateBook X Pro and HUAWEI MediaPad M5 Series at MWC. According to the company, the new notebook and tablet excel at work, at home or on the go for the ultimate mobile computing experience. "The HUAWEI MateBook X Pro and HUAWEI MediaPad M5 Series are at the forefront of a new generation of mobile computing that empowers every aspect of your life," says Richard Yu, CEO, Huawei CBG.