New York — Liberia has received the overwhelming endorsement of the African Group of Ambassadors to the United Nations, to chair the Fourth Committee of the UN General Assembly during the 73rd Session of the Assembly which begins in September. Formally referred to as the Special Political and Decolonization Committee of the General Assembly, the Fourth Committee is one of six main committees of the UN General Assembly. It considers a broad range of issues including decolonization, review of peacekeeping operations and special political missions, relief for Palestinian refugees, atomic radiation, assistance in mine action, as well as the peaceful uses of outer space. In a special note to Liberia's Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Ambassador Lewis Brown, II, the Chair of the African Group of Ambassadors, Anatolio Ndong Mba of Equatorial Guinea congratulated Liberia for what he termed as an "overwhelming preferment" of the Country in the African Group. "I am hereby very pleased to inform you that consensus has now been reached in the African Group, for Liberia chairing the Fourth Committee beginning this September", Ambassador Ndong Mba said. Reacting to the note of endorsement, Ambassador Brown thanked the African Group for the confidence reposed in Liberia, noting that the endorsement further testifies to what he referred to as "Liberia's growing ability to meaningfully contribute to the ongoing search for and maintenance of international peace and security, as well as improvements in the lives of all peoples, after years of conflict and instability." A dispatch from Liberia's Permanent Mission to the United Nations quotes Ambassador Brown as describing the endorsement by the full membership of the African Group as a moment of great pride and deep fulfillment which bears special significance for Liberia, a post-conflict nation which recently underwent a successfully historic democratic transfer of political power. "Your overwhelming endorsement further signals the confidence of African colleagues in the respectable return of Liberia to the high table of global affairs - a place we cherish, and one to which the Liberian Government and people have worked assiduously to be returned", Ambassador Brown observed. "Liberia has earned her experience. We have a lot to share. We will not let you down", the Liberian diplomat concluded. The formal election of Liberia by the entire membership of the General Assembly of the United Nations is scheduled for June. With the full endorsement of the African Group, Liberia is expected to be elected unopposed. The last time Liberia chaired the Fourth committee was at the 1961 Session of the General Assembly when the Committee was chaired by Ambassador Angie Elisabeth Brooks.