The music scene in Nigeria is blessed with a potpourri of Nigerian female musicians, who are good in their chosen career. The female artistes often get more attention than their male counterparts. This is because women and their careers come with a lot of expectations. The society expects so much from the women folk that they live with the burden almost all through their lives. Five years ago, the music scene spotlight was on Omawumi, Waje, Tiwa Savage, Chidinma and perhaps Seyi Shay. The debate on who was the most talented or hottest female artiste got people talking about which artistes also exudes sexiness and great sex appeal, plus attribute in the hiphop culture. Omawumi is a great performing artiste and her stage craft and how she engages the audience while performimg was second to none. During her Lasso Of Truth, debut album launch held at the Oriental hotel in April, 2013, she paraded great performances that made the occasion a success. Even the buzz and the branding of plus size women showing their great features with the 'OmaWonder' black t-shirt was mind blowing. Aside the sonorous veteran singer and elegant stallion, Onyeka Onwenu and Wizkid making a duet with Omawumi on stage, the 1st-runner-up of maiden Idols West Africa, also paraded a session where four of the top singers wearing the same purple stylish dress, came on stage together with Omawonder to sing. They were Tiwa Savage, Waje and Seyi Shay. Back to the present, the stage has been turned around and Omawumi Megbele seemed to have taken a back seat having had her shine on the music scene- just making money on corporate and other performances aside her personal projects. Now Tiwa Savage who has held the reign in the last three years, is not ready to come off the horse of the hottest Nigerian female singer- and the most bankable at that. With her Sugarcane EP (extended play), a mini-album released last year and hit songs upon hit songs laced with great collabos, Tiwa has continued to show her dexterity and the uniqueness of that golden and 'million-dollar' voice texture. Her hit and most downloadable song, 'All Over' is presently having over 2,303,738 views on a youtube channel. The official music version of 'All Over' video published last year, May 22, 2017 has 14,327,880 views as at early Tuesday morning when our correspondent checked. What of 'Ma lo' which featured Starboy's Wizkid- the music artiste Tiwa presently shares the privilege of being both at the top of the Nigeria music industry and African music hip-hop scene, going by available indices. Savage and Wizkid even clinched 'Artiste Of The Year' female and male respectively at the Africa Music Awards AFRIMA 2017 held last November. Other songs of the six-track Sugar Cane EP include- Get It Now, Me and You, Sugar Cane, Ma lo, All Over. So who can compete with Tiwa Savage in songs, performances, shows, tours and the buzz in 2018? Seyi Shay is in the fray with her Yoloyolo song among others. Talented and sonorous Waje seems to have mellowed, staying on her lane and doing advocacy- her involvement with One.Org as an ambassador. 'Single & Searching' singer, Yemi Alade comes a close second, thanks to her penetrating the Central and Southern Africa music terrain. She was reported to have upstaged Tiwa Savage in terms of acceptance and having music tours in that part of Africa. But between Tiwa Savage and Yemi Alade, one that music followers keep mentioning her name is the fast rising singer, Niniola who possesses such incredible voice range and texture and also a sex appeal advantage with her great dancing skills. Drumroll Records artiste, Niniola was the artiste that thrilled the audience and TV viewers at last Sunday Big Brother Naija Double Wahala eviction show and Niniola Apata killed it! The social media went frenzy on account of her excellent performance and of course her sexiness. The lady who became the fourth runner's-up in MTN Project Fame 2013 contest, has Maradona, Sicker and other hit songs off her 'This Is Me' debut album released in November 2017. The manner that Niniola composes her song is also laudable with songs like Oyin among others showing on different music and video platforms. Niniola is a star in the making and she stands to last in the game if she keeps top her craft. Her genre which she says is Afrobeat + House Music (popular in South Africa), is a breath of fresh air in the Nigeria music scene and a new mix among the female artistes here. Simi is in a world of her own and her genre is soul music. She has won HEADIES 2016 best Female vocal performance award and AFRIMA 2017 as well. The likes of Tiwa and others will gush at how the small-sized but mighty singer, gets her retinue of songs out. Her 'Simisola' 2017 debut album has twelve songs with two bonus tracks and they include Smile For Me, Remind me, Joromi, Aimasiko, Complete Me, Gone For Good, Original Baby, One Kain, Take Me Back ft Adekunle Gold and others. Other known artistes who may steal a show include Cynthia Morgan, Niyola, YBNL's Temmie Ovwasa and maybe Chidinma in her come back career. It is as competitive as it is and the female artistes work twice harder than their male colleagues. So who will become the hottest Nigerian female artiste of 2018? It is still a long way -ten adventurous and eventful months and Tiwa Sexy is still way above the rest. Industry observers are of the view that Niniola, Simi both have the potential to upstage Yemi Alade and Tiwa Savage As 'The Hottest Female Artiste' but it will take more work and time to achieve this.