Masters Security of Malawi have vowed to throw caution to the wind when they host Angola's Petro de Luanda at 40,000-seater Bingu National Stadium in Lilongwe on Tuesday. Head Coach, Abasi Makawa, tells CAFonline.com after the 5-0 loss in the first-leg, there would be no need for his charges to defend in the reverse fixture. "We are playing at home and the weather is better compared to Luanda which was too hot. It is for this reason that they scored many goals in the last 15 minutes of the first-leg match because my charges were exhausted. "Now we have home-ground advantage and we will take the game to them. They like to play long balls and use wingers a lot, so we know what to expect from them. "However, irrespective of the first-leg result, there is no need for us to fear them. For this reason, we have to attack as we have nothing to lose. Of course, we will be wary of being caught off-guard," Makawa said. To go past the prelims, Masters, a club formed four years ago, need a near miracle-they must score six unanswered goals. The responsibility of scoring rests on the legs of Vincent Ngangulu, last season's Malawi league's second leading scorer with 12 goals in 30 games, and Juma Yatina. Also, Masters need to strike a balance between attacking and defending-a responsibility placed on experienced defenders Richard Chande and Kondwani Lufeyo. The likes of Rafik Musa and Eneya Banda should pull strings in midfield. Masters are underdogs and go into the match having lost in three consecutive games of all competitions. Coached by Beto Bianchi, Petro are strong opponents with many experienced players in their ranks such as captain Job and attacking duo of Costa do Santos and Antonio Rosta who scored in the first leg in Luanda. The overall winner of the two legs date South African giants, SuperSport United at the next round. Fixtures Tuesday, 20 February 2018 Masters Security (Malawi) vs Petro Atletico (Angola) (0-5) Cape Town City (South Africa) vs Young Buffaloes (Swaziland) (1-0) Hafia (Guinea) vs Energie (Benin) (0-1) Anse Reunion (Seychelles) vs APR (Rwanda) (0-4) Port Louis (Mauritius) vs Ngazi Sport (Comoros) (1-1) Deportivo Niefang (Equatorial Guinea) vs New Stars (Cameroon) (1-2) CS la Mancha (Congo) vs Tanda (Cote d'Ivoire) (0-0) CR Belouizdad (Algeria) vs Onze Createurs (Mali) (1-1) Green Buffaloes (Zambia) vs El Masry (Egypt) (0-4) Gendarmerie (Djibouti) vs Simba (Tanzania) (0-4) Wednesday, 21 February 2018 Jwaneng (Botswana) vs Costa do Sol (Mozambique) (0-1) FOSA Juniors (Madagascar) vs AFC Leopards (Kenya) (1-1) Maniema Union (DR Congo) vs Mangasport (Gabon) (1-0) Etoile Filante (Burkina Faso) vs Olympic Star (Burundi) (0-0) Hawks (Gambia) vs Akwa United (Nigeria) (2-1) Sahel (Niger) vs Al Ittihad (Libya) (0-1) CARA (Congo) vs Asante Kotoko (Ghana) (0-1) Mbour Petite Cote (Senegal) vs RS Berkane (Morocco) (1-2) FC Nouadhibou (Mauritania) vs Africa Sports (Cote d'Ivoire) (1-1) Wolaitta Dicha (Ethiopia) vs Zimamoto (Zanzibar) (1-1)