Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on Wednesday said his administration will scale up the operations of the Nigerian Army against kidnapping, smuggling, armed robbery, illegal oil bunkering and other security challenges in the state. Speaking at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja when he received the new General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General Enebong Okon Udoh on courtesy visit, Ambode said though a lot had been achieved in securing the state in the last 32 months, the state government would nonetheless continue to support military operations designed to ensure residents go about their social and economic activities without let or hindrance. He said as a government, security had been the major pillar of his administration upon which the economic growth of the state was built, adding that he remained committed to sustain the successes recorded so far. "As an administration, we have always said that security is the real major foundation of the economic growth of Lagos and it has been proven in the last two and a half years. I have had the cooperation of all the security agencies in Lagos; they have worked together and there has been a lot of collaboration and improvement. "I want to also say that I am going to scale up the activities of 'Operation Mesa' and I welcome the idea to set up new Army units that tackle issues that relate to kidnapping, smuggling and all the vices that we have. I am also very excited that we will soon have the presence of the Army in most of those areas that we are having troubles such as Ikorodu, Epe, among others so that we take security down to the people. "There is already a division in Badagry and I just believe strongly that with the collaboration that we are renewing, Lagosians are going to benefit more from what we are doing and with the security apparatus in the right place at the right time, everybody can go about their economic and social activities and then we have a peaceful year ahead of us. I believe strongly that Nigeria is going to be better off as long as we sustain security and peace in Lagos," Ambode said. Earlier, the new General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General Enebong Okon Udoh commended the governor for the massive support extended to security agencies and in particular the Nigerian Army, saying the development had greatly facilitated their operations in preventing and combating crimes in the state.