Young artists have expressed unique creativity in paintings, graphics, mixed media sculptures, and ceramics at the exhibition that opened on Tuesday at the Gallery Delta. The ninth "Annual Young Artist in the Stream Exhibition" edition is sponsored by the Embassy of Switzerland and it consists of 27 local talented artists. The exhibition is designed to stimulate, give encouragement to young and aspiring artists and to assess progress and discover new and developing art. The subject and content of the works are mainly concerned with social commentary and personal statements and is subjugated by more graphics than paintings. Some of the titles of pieces on display include "Garden Party", "Happy Time", "Nhangemutange", "Aftermath" and "Ladies of the Night" amongst others. Participating artists include Naume Chaota, Grace Nhahangare, Tanaka Dzuda, Xavier Chakabva, Lawrence Duri, Kundai Nathan, Mudiwa Marasa and Pardon Mapondera just to mention a few. One of the artists, 26-year old Lydia Molai said she was delighted to be part of the event. "I am happy to be participating at this great event to showcase my art because it gives me exposure. I have got two abstract media on display and they express the beauty of nature and also mother's love," she said. Ambassador of Switzerland to Zimbabwe Ruth Huber who officially opened the event thanked the gallery for promoting art. "The art collection undermines the commitment of Gallery Delta in promoting art and culture in Zimbabwe and it has remained a home for creativity and a vital incubator for art and artists despite the difficult times that the country has gone through in the past recent years," she said. She added: "Judging from the outstanding level of skill, commitment, motivation, creativity and courage that is in Zimbabwe the exhibition makes a strong and enduring contribution to the current and future identity of the country". Gallery co-founders Derek Huggins and Helen Lieros said they are happy with the involvement of more female artists and expect to see work that depicts the new dispensation. "It is interesting to note that nine of the artistes are female which reflects on the gender issue that women are asserting themselves in contemporary art. "We are surprised that the momentous events of November last year are not portrayed. However, we compliment the artists for their efforts," they said.