The United States Nigeria Council (USNC), a business organisation dedicated to deepening commercial ties between the United States and Nigeria, has announced the appointment of Ambassador Terence McCulley as its new Chairman. Ambassador McCulley served as United States ambassador to Nigeria from 2010 to 2013. The USNC, launched in 2016, acts as a convener, clearinghouse and catalyst for business and investment opportunities for US and Nigerian firms. From its offices in Washington, DC and Lagos, USNC develops targeted partnerships between members with an aim to catalyze a new wave of diversified investment and inclusive growth. In addition to its continued work in agricultural supply chain development, the Council will focus on the information communication technology (ICT)sector in 2018. Speaking on the appointment of Ambassador McCulley, the Executive Director of USNC, Eliot Pence, said: " McCulley has a proven track record in promoting businesses and diplomatic relations between the two countries. His leadership and experience will play a huge role as we forge a backbone of strong joint ventures between companies, funds and entrepreneurs." McCulley has a distinguished diplomatic career in Africa. In addition to his posting in Nigeria, McCulley served as the US Ambassador to Côte d'Ivoire from 2013 to 2016 and Mali from 2005 to 2008. Reacting to his appointment, McCulley said: "As a former Ambassador to Nigeria, I understand the importance of the US-Nigeria Council in facilitating meaningful partnerships between Nigerian and American companies." He added that "Nigeria is an indispensable destination for US investment; the country represents the largest market in Africa with over 180 million consumers and it is attracting an increasing number of US corporations. USNC is doing important work in focusing on deal execution and I am excited to be a part of the team." The Co-Chair of the council and Chairman of Flour Mills Nigeria, John Coumantaros, welcomed the appointment of McCulley, saying: "We are honored to have Ambassador McCulley as a leader in USNC efforts. He deeply understands the Nigerian operational context and has the diplomatic skills needed to strengthen commercial relationships between US and Nigerian companies." Also speaking, Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority(NSIA) and Co-chair of the USNC, Uche Orji, said: "Ambassador McCulley is a recognised leader who blends diplomatic skills with a business acumen."