Lilongwe — Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and Development Goodall Gondwe said Malawi has made progress on the growth of its economy in the country for past four years. He made the observation Wednesday in Lilongwe during a joint press briefing with International Monetary Fund (IMF) article IV consultations and the Extended Credit Facility Programme (ECF). Gondwe explained that that the economy now is in good shape compared to the past four years and the country has managed to reduce inflation rate to single digit. "Four years ago, the inflation rate was almost 30 per cent but now we are on single digit which shows that we have stabilized from what we had in the past and we have reached this far with support from the IMF," he pointed out. The Minister added that, "Am very happy that the IMF came again, we had a lot of discussion and they had a number projects which they wished we could have done but we have already done them and they have re-indicated to us that we are capable of economic growth up to seven per cent." IMF Mission Chief for Malawi, Pritha Mitra said the IMF team reached a staff-level agreement with the authorities of Malawi. "We have agreed on three year programme that can be supported by an arrangement under the ECF and concluded the 2018 article IV discussions which would aim on the economic aimed to entrench macroeconomic stability and foster higher, more inclusive, and resilient growth," she revealed. IMF team visited the country from January 31 to February 14, 2018 to conduct the Article IV Consultations and hold discussions with the Malawian authorities on a programme supported by the IMF's Extended Credit Facility. The staff-level agreement and 2018 Article IV could be considered by the IMF Executive Board in April 2018. The Team met with the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Malawi Dalitso Kabambe, other senior government and RBM officials, a number of national stakeholders from private sector as well as representatives of Malawi's development partners.