The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) has announced Fingers Academy as the new licence holder for the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe (MTZ) Beauty Pageant. Speaking at the signing ceremony, ZTA Chief Executive, Dr Karikoga Kaseke said the Authority had received a lot of proposals from individuals, companies, former beauty queens and owners of Modelling Agencies with the Fingers Agency proposal coming out tops. "The three year licence has been awarded to Fingers Academy owned by business woman, former model and TV Soap Actor from the Amakorokoza fame Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda," he said. "Sarah Mpofu-Sibanda commands a lot of respect in modeling industry and she brings in a lot of expertise as evidenced by the many Miss Tourism Zimbabwe past winners who have come from her modeling agency," he added. "We are confident that she will do a great job and we also want to urge the Private Sector to support this noble cause as pageants thrive on support from the corporate world. As the licensing Authority and Government we will step in to assist as and when needed," he cited. In her remarks she expressed joy in being awarded the license by saying 'On behalf of Fingers Academy I would like to thank the Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) for giving me the license to host the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe (MTZ) Beauty Pageant. "I have been in the modelling scene since 1986 and for over 30 years I have gained knowledge and experience that l want to give back to the community. I will be meeting the former licence holders as well as speaking to former beauty queens for assistance and expert advice in order to create a better pageant. Mpofu-Sibanda also called upon all Zimbabweans to rally behind her and give her support to promote the Girl Child and expressed that it takes the whole village to raise a child. 'I would like to see the winner of MTZ bringing a World Crown to Zimbabwe and also Zimbabwe being given an opportunity to host the Miss Tourism Zimbabwe World Beauty Finals' she said. The winner of the MTZ will be an Ambassador for Zimbabwe and will promote the Girl Child, education and culture in her endeavours to represent Brand Zimbabwe.