Urban highlife singer, Adekunle Gold has revealed that the visuals for his new song 'Ire' was shot to eulogise his younger sister, who died in 2011, due to heart complications. This comes after fans asked the singer to clarify the 'For Busayo' dedication at the end of the reflective music video. He gave the answer on his Instagram page @adekunlegold, where he shared a picture of himself and his late sister. He wrote: "For Busayo" Who is Busayo? I've been getting this question a lot. Busayo is my sister. We lost her in 2011 to a Heart Complication. "I'm fiercely protective of my family, but I didn't think I could skip out one of my favourite memories or people in life. "Busayo was symbolically represented by the little girl skipping around me in the video as that is who she was in real life. "She never left my side, as a matter of fact, she was my younger twin. " We looked alike and she could sing for the whole of AFRICA. "In my heart, I believe I sing for the both of us; it was only right that I dedicate the video to her memory." Adekunle Gold stated further that 'Ire' "is a symbolic summary of his life experiences and his journey to becoming Adekunle Gold." He also assured fans that "This song will be the soundtrack of your life." 'Ire', released on February 23, is a life lesson packaged in a slow tempo song and accompanied by traditional Yoruba percussion sounds. Adekunle Gold sings in his native Yoruba language in his usual style, although he sings in English for an uncharacteristic long amount of time. The song was produced by Seyikeyz, the video was directed by Aje and shot in various locations around Lagos, Nigeria, including Ajah, Ajegunle, Ikorodu and Ikoyi. The video employs melancholy storytelling and shows Adekunle Gold walking backwards whilst activities go on around him; and a little girl playing and trying to touch him. Adekunle Gold came into limelight with his 2014 single 'Sade', followed by his second single 'Orente', after which he received the Headies award for 'Best Alternative Song' in 2016. In 2015, he was signed to YBNL Nation under which he released his debut studio album 'Gold'. (NAN)