South Africa-based urban grooves musician Betty Makaya, who went into hibernation for some years, has broken the silence with a love single titled "It's Complicated" as she seeks to revive her lost glory in music circles. Makaya, who won the hearts of many with her soft melodious voice, hogged the limelight with her some of her hit songs like "Usipo", "Ndakusuwa" and scaled heights with her collaboration with the late Jamal on the song "Kurwizi". The song that topped the charts in 2003 and was eventually voted the Song of the Year, showed depth, creativity and a high level of creativity on the part of the composers. The fusion of the lyrics that rhymed well with the exploration of flora and fauna in the song made it a favourite of lovebirds. The latest single was released on Valentine's Day together with a video that has already garnered more than 7 000 views on YouTube. It was produced Cashlibs at PropaBless Entertainment and the video was also shot here in Zimbabwe. The song which tackles challenges in relationships has already won the hearts of many music lovers. Speaking from her South African base, Makaya said she was excited by the response the song is receiving. "I had thought that I lost my legions of fans because of my silence but I was really shocked and overwhelmed by the response the song is receiving both on radio and social media. I have rekindled romance with my fans once again," she said. She promised to be more consistent, citing family and education commitments as major players to her disappearance from the music scene for the past years. "It has been long. I cannot even remember when I produced music. I was focusing on my family and raising my four children and I am done making babies now. "I was also occupied with studies which I am still pursuing, but now I will make more efforts to be visible because I am still passionate about music," said Makaya. Although she was reluctant to shed more details about her upcoming projects she just assured that music lovers should anticipate more from her this time around. "I cannot lay out my plan right now but all I can say is I am trying so hard to make time for my passion. I will also be working with other producers like MacDee Chidavaenzi, Alexio and Connie. In terms of collaborations they are coming but it's a surprise," Makaya said.