Schools will not close if Cape Town reaches Day Zero, Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said on Wednesday. "Whatever happens, we intend to keep schools open," Zille said at a mass meeting of school principals and education officials in Kuils River, Cape Town. "And we intend to keep schools open with water because obviously we can't keep schools open without water," she said. However, with a "60% chance" that Day Zero will be declared, a complex plan is being activated, which involves using swimming pools as dams, fixing boreholes, the dropping of water "bladders" and a real-time school water security map. 'Keeping school water secure' Hygiene and sanitation, disease prevention, and fire safety are top priorities for keeping schools "water secure", she said, answering some of the points raised by the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) on Tuesday. Provincial Sadtu secretary Jonovan Rustin had said they were "extremely disappointed" in the Western Cape government, adding that the government had known for a long time that Cape Town is a drought-stricken area. "They [the Western Cape Government] have done absolutely nothing to make sure that we are safe from this disaster, and now we are sitting at this particular point where our young children who have no voice, are vulnerable in this drought area," Rustin said. Rustin added that the government must get "their act together to ensure that our schools are saved and our education is saved in the province". He was speaking at a briefing in Parow in Cape Town on Tuesday. Zille also told officials on Wednesday: "The first thing that schools can do for us is make sure everybody understands that this is real. It is dead serious. If we do avoid Day Zero it will be because of behaviour change." The city's water consumption had dropped from 1.2 billion litres a day, to around 600 million, and then to around 500 million. "To avoid Day Zero entirely we have to get down to 450Ml (megalitres) per day and then Day Zero has a zero chance of happening," said Zille. "Use 50 litres of water per day for 150 days and we will be through this." However, Zille said she is resigned for now to the national government repeatedly turning down requests for help on the grounds there is no money and "will not have that fight now". It also has reduced revenue as a result of the reduced water use that would usually cross-subside the poor. She said the desalination plants and aquifers would not bring water into the system on time and, if they did, they would only put just over 100Ml into the system. The only thing left to avoid Day Zero was to reduce usage and waste, particularly with toilet flushing which consumes vast amounts of water, and to manage a disaster. Independent schools will be met next to establish what will happen with them, but this is what the province is planning in conjunction with the provincial education department for government schools if Day Zero is declared: 'Province is limited' Zille said she had "regret" that the water crisis had happened, but the province was limited to what it could do in terms of the Constitutional boundaries. The province was currently working within an "unfunded mandate", taking money from other projects to cover costs. She hoped the water crisis would do what the energy crisis of 2013 did in terms of giving innovators space to produce and sell a range of new energy systems. People had already come up with innovative devices and ways of using water sparingly, and this was bound to carry on after the crisis. "It's called snatching victory from the jaws of defeat," said Zille. Source: News24