"Ethiopia has been at forefront of realizing Africa's regional and continental holistic multifaceted integration," said Zelalem Birhan ,Director General of Business Diplomacy Directorate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He recently told The Ethiopian Herald that throughout its history ,Ethiopia has been working on Africa's political, economical and social advancement. "Since the very day of the struggle against western colonization in Africa , Ethiopia has been contributing a lot in ensuring peace and stability in the continent." Pointing out Ethiopia's ongoing efforts in bringing economic integration in Africa , he said: "Ethiopia has made all its growth and economic transformation plans inline with Africa's goal in this regard." Fore instance , in both Growth and Transformation Plans- GTP I and II, as well as in designing its Sustainable Development Goals, the economic, social and political integration of the rest of African countries have been strongly considered and have been made a part and parcel of the plan, he added. He also said that "Ethiopia considers its neighbors and the rest of Africans' development as its own development." He underscored that as the country has placed strong emphasize on continental and regional integration of African nations, currently the Ethiopian Airlines, which has strong potential and the leading role in African civil aviation,is advancing the interest of African's economic integration opening many more flight destinations. Ethiopia has also been exerting tremendous efforts in bringing economic integration with its neighboring Africans such as Djibouti, Kenya, Somalia, South Sudan and Sudan, through rail transportation, road, electric supply and in various forms of trade and cultural exchange. The Director General added that: "Ethiopia's leading role in putting place infrastructure has been contributing particularly to boost the credibility and trustworthiness of the country. And also the effort to create strong economic integration in the Horn Region is harmonious with the African Union's goal to create African Free Trade Zone."