Marcus Kwikiriza was one of the trio that hosted the Big Breakfast show on Capital FM until late last year when he resigned to concentrate on other things including the rather controversial Another Round show that he co-hosts with Gaetano Kagwa on NBS TV. He recently shared a few things with Quick Talk. Hello! Tell me about Marcus in one statement. I am ambitious, [I] hate confrontation, [I] try to live life to the fullest and what you see is what you get. Okay. Which word best describes you? Jovial! Yes, you are such a jolly person. Is there anything that angers you? I try hard not to let anything anger me. I believe life is hard already; so, I try hard to only focus on the things I can change and if I can, I change them as soon as possible not to let me stay there enough to get angry. But yes, I can't stand hypocrites. So, what time did this jovial guy wake up today? Oh! I was up by 5:30am. Don't ask me why I was up at that time. I get it. You are an early bird since you were a co-host for a morning show. Why did you leave? I was already kind of busy and I am doing quite a number of things now. I work with [Uganda Breweries Limited] as a brand ambassador and I also have a show on NBS TV. I lead the best coffee brand team in Uganda, Imara African Coffee, and have an events company, Blackstar Ent Ltd. Wow, that's quite a busy life. Whose idea was Another Round? It was a sit down between Gae and myself; so, I can't really credit the idea to anyone in particular. Your topics can be controversial. Is there a topic you can't discuss on the show? I am almost certain there is nothing we cannot talk about, because it's like being in a bar in real life. Is there anything you can't talk about when in a bar? You are really good at mimicking several accents! How do you do it? All I can say is it's a gift from the Almighty. Tell me about your family and how you find parenting. I am divorced with two kids. In today's fast-moving world and its demands and pressure from the harsh economic times, some parents are slowly leaving the parenting to maids, their parents... However, some are not letting the situation get the better of them. It is hard, I think, but I also think, if anything is important in life to you, you make time for it. Describe your ideal woman. My ideal woman should be loyal, funny and be able to take a bad joke about her. She should have no chip on her shoulder, be confident in her own skin and hard-working. What do you enjoy cooking, Marcus? I make the best omelettes in Uganda [Hahahaa. The ultimate bachelor startup meal. Add a chapatti to that and, voila... Marcus could be the best rolex guy in UG] Do you have a tattoo or would you get one? Not yet but I've learnt to never say never. When was the last time you cried? Wow! I can't recall for sure, but I think when my son got admitted in hospital with pneumonia. He is well, though. Pneumonia is scary. Tell me about your childhood. I was born to Mr and Mrs Karake and raised in Uganda, although I spent many years in Mombasa as a child. I had a peaceful and basic childhood. So, you also studied in Mombasa? I attended Ganjoni Primary in Mombasa before sitting my Primary Leaving Exams in Kampala Parents School. I then joined Namasagali College in Kamuli for O and A-level [Hmm, visiting Namasagali today, it would be hard trying to imagine Marcus there! Sad.] I graduated with a bachelor's degree in Mass Communication from Bangalore University in India. What is that one thing we don't know about Marcus? I am a better listener than I am a talker.