At least 16 Northern Kenya MPs have demanded the unconditional return of teachers withdrawn from the region by the Teachers Service Commission on account of insecurity. The MPs from Wajir, Mandera and Garissa asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to intervene so that children are not denied their right to education. "The TSC has fallen to a trap by Al-Shabaab and their action is only meant to divide Kenyans. We are asking President Kenyatta and his deputy to intervene and have the decision by the commission rescinded immediately," Dr Abdulahi Ali, the Wajir Senator said at Parliament Buildings where he was with his colleagues Yusuf Haji (Garissa), Mohamed Mohamud (Mandera) and Eldas MP Adan Keynan. The transfers were triggered by a terrorist attack in which three teachers were killed early last week. While appearing before the Education committee of the National Assembly on Tuesday last week, TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia said that non-local teachers in the region will be moved from rural to urban areas to minimize attacks and make it easy for security agencies to respond to distress calls. Mr Keynan dared TSC to close all the schools since no learning is going on even as he warned of the likelihood of the idle children being lured to join Al-Shabaab. "The transfer is an affront to our sovereignty. Criminal responsibility is individual not collective... they should not punish the whole region because of the criminal gangs," Mr Keynan said. Mr Haji asked the President to intervene, saying the TSC's decision was a violation of the rights of the innocent children. "We have seen Kenyans in the security forces die in the line of duty while fighting Al-Shabaab but the government has not removed them from the region. Why are we being punished for crimes we have not committed? The TSC and Kenya National Union of Teachers should come to their senses and stop what they are doing," he said Mr Mohamud said the move was counterproductive and would only bring more misery to schools.