Senate has refused to budge over the probe of $2.9billion contract involving Chief Executive Officers of some foreign firms that participated in the $16billion Egina Deep Sea Project. The Senate Ad-Hoc Committee Investigating Total Upstream Nigeria Limited's $16 Billion Egina Deep Sea Project for Cost Variation and Local Content Elements has insisted that the CEOs must compulsorily appear in person, within a week, to proffer valid information on their activities in the contract under the Consortium of SAIPEM. The foreign companies in the consortium with SAIPEM Contracting Nigeria Ltd are SAIPEM BV, SAIPEM SA and SAIPEM Portugal. Only the managing director of the Allied Dominion Oil and Shipping Services Ltd, the only Nigerian company in the consortium, Mr. Tien George honoured the committee invitation along with Mr. D'Aloisio. The chairman of the committee, Senator Solomon Adeola (APC, Lagos West), at the weekend, noted that except the companies CEOs have something to hide in the transactions they had with Total Upstream Nigeria Limited through the SAIPEM Consortium, they should not refuse to appear to account for their part of the $2.9Billion contracts awarded to the consortium. He noted that if the situation were reversed with Nigerian companies doing business in Italy, the Italian Parliament will not take kindly to the non- appearance of the Nigerian companies CEOs to assist it in a parliamentary investigation. According to Adeola, the Senate's investigations so far shows that "some of the companies that got this dollar denominated multi million contracts have only three staff adding that the foreign managing directors should come along with their stamped travelling documents to authenticate the claims they actually came to Nigeria to sign the contracts given to them." "From revelations so far, it is like the more you look the less you see in the contracts that mid-wife the almost completed Egina Project. But we are optimistic that the investigations will result in refund of millions if not billions of dollars either to Nigeria Government or Total Upstream Nigeria Limited which will ultimately reduce the cost of Egina Project and result in advantage to Nigeria in the joint venture business that is to run for 25 year exploiting Nigeria asset" he stated. Going further, the chairman of the committee stated that by the time all the unapproved cost variations by the various sub-contractors in the project are computed with additional sum to be recovered through computation of the differentials in the practice of main contractors getting contracts in mostly dollars and giving out contracts in naira is computed, it will be clear that the Egina project could have cost far less than $16 billion.