Besides the strong economic ties, Kuwait has a desire to furthering its political partnership with Ethiopia in regional and international issues, Kuwaiti Ambassador to Ethiopia Rashed Al Hajri said. Being non-permanent members of the UNSC (United Nations Security Council), the two countries could flourish their engagement in global issues especially peace and security concerns, Ambassador Rashid told The Ethiopian Herald. The Ambassador noted that the two countries high-ranking officials made periodic visits to confer on ways of consolidating cooperation to ensure peace and stability in the Horn of Africa and Middle East regions. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Middle East Affairs Director-General Ambassador Sulieman Dedefo expressed Ethiopia's support for Kuwait's mediation efforts and the role Kuwait's Emir Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah has played to resolve the Gulf crisis in peaceful manner. "As peace loving country, Ethiopia also wants to take part in Kuwait's peace endeavors, Ambassador Sulieman added. For Ambassador Rashid, the frequent high-level exchange visits held between Ethiopia and Kuwait has taken the two countries booming relations to new height whilst expanding areas of cooperation. Concerning the two countries economic relations, the Ambassador stated that the Ethio-Kuwait Joint Commission has been playing a leading role in outlining the cooperation frameworks. It was indicated agreement was reached to host the Commission's summit in Addis Ababa soon. Kuwait is among Ethiopia's largest trading partners and information obtained from Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and Natural Gas indicated that Ethiopia imports 70 percent of diesel, airplane kerosene and benzene from Kuwait. Furthermore, Ethiopia is among the recipients of Kuwait's one billion USD soft loan the Emir initiated to support Africa's development projects. The Ambassador said: "Both Ethiopia and Kuwait have active participation in the Afro-Arab summits and employ the forums to enhance the socioeconomic, endeavors, Ambassador Sulieman added. For Ambassador Rashid, the frequent high-level exchange visits held between Ethiopia and Kuwait has taken the two countries booming relations to new height whilst expanding areas of cooperation. Concerning the two countries economic relations, the Ambassador stated that the Ethio-Kuwait Joint Commission has been playing a leading role in outlining the cooperation frameworks. It was indicated agreement was reached to host the Commission's summit in Addis Ababa soon. Kuwait is among Ethiopia's largest trading partners and information obtained from Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and Natural Gas indicated that Ethiopia imports 70 percent of diesel, airplane kerosene and benzene from Kuwait. Furthermore, Ethiopia is among the recipients of Kuwait's one billion USD soft loan the Emir initiated to support Africa's development projects. The Ambassador said: "Both Ethiopia and Kuwait have active participation in the Afro-Arab summits and employ the forums to enhance the socioeconomic, political and diplomatic relations and partnerships of Africa and the Arab world." In addition to the strong trade ties, Kuwait is Ethiopia's development ally and it has been extended loans to finance road constructions and rural electrification projects through the Kuwait Fund, he added. Kuwait has so far financed, among others, Wukro - Zalambesa, Nekemte - Bedele, and Dessie - Kutaber - Tenata road projects in Tigray, Oromia and Amhara states and Aksum water project in Tigray State. "There would be more projects to be financed and development assistance from Kuwait to Ethiopia would be consolidated in the future." Ampbassador Rashid noted. Ethiopia and Kuwait established diplomatic relations in 1997 when the latter opened its embassy in Addis Ababa.