Peace and development are the two sides of the same coin. Peace is everything and a path to development and prosperity. It is a common perception that in peace, human rights would not be violated, people can work together, move freely from one place to another and live without having any fear in their mind. Precisely, peace is the most essential ingredient in maintaining economic development, social order and political stability. On the contrary, when there is no peace, leave alone realizing development, the day to day functioning of citizens' would be at the highest risk. Spending a single day without tension becomes impossible. Conflicts have the potential to stunt economic growth through lowering country's capacity to utilize its potential and are key reasons for low average growth rates. Hence, peace has always been a central issue in all periods of history and at all levels of relations. Regrettably, Ethiopia had been in conflict and insecurity for several decades in the previous systems. The country, at different times and different regimes underwent prolonged armed struggles that cost the lives of hundreds of thousands and caused incalculable damages on nation's assets. These unresolved and extended conflicts had lagged country's development progress and left the nation in the quagmire of poverty. In fact, since the past twenty plus years, tremendous changes that prospect country's renaissance have happened. Issues that had been sources of conflict, such as inequality, injustice and exclusion are resolved and a ray of peace has beamed across the country. Consequently, the country apart from ascertaining its peace and stability and registering double digit economic growth for consecutive years, it has become a model for most of African countries and beyond. For anyone who is in the real sense, it is not difficult to realize country's multifaceted growth and success. These achievements gained so far, as many agreed, come to happen due to peace sustained within the country. However, since recent times, some anti-peace elements have been attempting to carry out annihilating activities in some parts of Amhara and Oromiya States using people legitimate demand for development and quests for good governance as cover to pursue their own hidden agenda. Though all are in vain, they are attempting to disturb societies' peace and stability and disrupt the economic and political situation of the country. Even some foreign forces are trying to ignite more conflicts through dispersing poisoning propaganda. Peace, as the saying goes, is less defined in theory but more valued in practice. Ethiopians have a lot of experiences in this respect. As they had paid the biggest price in the extended conflicts, they practically know its wide ranging havoc and bankruptcy. On the same way, they are well aware of the social, political and economic rewards of peacefulness. It is vivid that no country can benefit from unrest and conflict that result in havoc and bankruptcy. Hence, the entire public ought to identify the hidden agenda of anti-peace elements who are advancing conflicts and destruction among the citizens and must stand together to withstand them. In the same manner, the government needs to address the problems at their very roots in order to manage recurrent conflicts and build up harmonious relations among citizens within a peaceful nation.