Nigeria — FOUR African nationals are among 86 suspects arrested during a just-ended crackdown on criminals and immigration violators in the United States of America (USA). Federal officers with Immigration and Customs Enforcement's (ICE) Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) arrested the suspects during a three-day enforcement action, which ended last Thursday. Among those arrested are a Cameroonian, Liberian, Nigerian and a Zimbabwean. Most of the suspects (55) are from Mexico. The ages of the suspects range from 19 to 61 years old. Most of the suspects had prior criminal histories that included convictions for sexual assault, burglary, drugs, theft, illegal weapons and drunken driving. A 27-year-old citizen of Cameroon arrested was found to have been convicted of possessing child pornography and sentenced to two years' probation in 2008. He is in ICE custody pending an immigration hearing before a federal immigration judge. "By removing criminal aliens from the streets, our ICE officers provide a valuable community service by improving public safety," said Bret Bradford, field office director of ERO. The suspects are likely to be deported from the US. Illegal immigration was a signature issue of President Donald Trump's presidential campaign. A major promise of his divisive campaign was to build a wall on the US-Mexico border. Trump has questioned official estimates of the number of undocumented immigrants in the US (between 11 and 12 million), asserting the number is between 30 and 34 million. Early this year Trump raised a hornets nest when he described African migrants in America as coming from "shithole". Africans from the entire continent reacted angrily to Trump's tone accusing him of racism and ignorance. The 55-nation African Union (AU) condemned the remarks while a statement from ambassadors of all countries from the continent at the United Nations demanded a retraction and apology. The African Group of UN ambassadors said it was "extremely appalled at, and strongly condemns the outrageous, racist and xenophobic remarks by the president of the United States of America as widely reported by the media". - CAJ News