Ugandan socialite Zari Hassan has opened up to the real cause of her divorce with Tanzanian musician Diamond Platnumz. In a tell-it-all interview with BBC Swahili, the socialite narrated how the the numerous videos of Diamond getting 'cozy' with his former girlfriend Wema Sepetu had caused their break-up. Zari said she stopped communicating with Diamond three weeks before she announced to the world her break-up on Valentine's Day. This was after she had confronted Diamond about the videos with Wema Sepetu but got unsatisfactory answers. "We were trying to move on from the Baby Mama scandal (with model Hamisa Mobetto) but things like him getting cozy with ex-girlfriends in public, things that degrade me and make me be disrespected by my children was the end," Zari told BBC. ALL TOUCHY Diamond and Wema were filmed getting all touchy during a Wasafi Classic Label event in Tanzania, sparking rumors of a possible re-union. Wema has since denied claims of a reigniting romance with her ex-boyfriend. "Honestly speaking when the videos with his ex-girlfriend came up I tried asking him about it immediately the videos came up but he started giving too many explanations and that was when I decided to take time off and we stopped communicating for three weeks before I made my decision on Valentine's Day," Zari explained. Asked if she would forgive Diamond if he came crawling to South Africa as he had insinuated during the baby mama scandal, she said: "Right now the trust has been broken I don't think it's possible to be together again." Zari added that she has yet to hear from Diamond since she announced the break up and couldn't tell what he was thinking or planning to do. NO COMMUNICATION "I haven't communicated with anyone, I have decided to be away and be in a proper mental situation not being emotional and that is why I have kept off," Zari said. She added that Tiffa and Nillan are still his children and she doesn't plan to keep them away from their father. Diamond has however not visited nor talked to his children since the break-up. "If he wants to support his children he can do that but if he doesn't want to its still okay. I can manage on my own," Zari said. She said that she will be out of the dating scene for a while.