Police in Entebbe have said the key suspect in the death of Ugandan musician Moses Ssekibogo alias Mowzey Radio will be arraigned in court today. Mowzey died of head injuries at Case Hospital on February 1 following a bar brawl at De Bar, a popular hangout in Entebbe town on January 22. According to a police source, the file has been sanctioned and the key suspect, Godfrey Wamala alias Troy will be charged with murder. However, Wamala who was a bouncer at De Bar denies beating Mowzey. He told police that Mowzey was attacked by unknown people, who dragged him out of the bar and that he only found him lying down. "The file is ready and has been sanctioned. The key suspect in this case, Troy Wamala, will be charged with murder. However, police had arrested two other suspects including the bar manager, George Egessa and these are likely to be taken as state witnesses in this matter, " the source told this reporter. On Tuesday, police detectives visited the De Bar with Egessa to reconstruct the scene of crime. While at the scene of crime, Egessa showed police the exact spot where Mowzey was seated before he was beaten. "I was in the bar that day when the scuffle ensued but I didn't see exactly where Radio was hit from because I remained inside the bar and Radio was dragged outside. I didn't see exactly where he was hit from," Egessa told the detectives. Meanwhile, police have taken one Moreen Namuli to Butabika for further examination following her arrest at Mowzey's grave at Kagga in Nakawuka, Wakiso District. According to the source in police, whatever information Namuli was giving police couldn't be relied on. "Today, we decided to take this lady to Butabika because we can't record her statement while in that state. We too her there so that doctors can examine her properly. If it so happens that she fakes madness, then we shall charge her with tress pass, but in case she has a mental problem, we shall see what to do," source said. Namuli was arrested last Saturday after Mowzey 's burial when relatives to the deceased found her at his graveyard in the wee hours of the night. On searching her, they found stuff believed to be herbs in her bag.