Florence Otedola, daughter of billionaire oil mogul, Femi Otedola, is undoubtedly a pride to the Otedolas. Already, it is being said that the beautiful young lady, also known as DJ Cuppy, shares a lot in common with her billionaire father. Indeed, those who have been following her story say that the celebrity DJ is beginning to show every imaginable sign of a lady with a heart of gold, just like her father. Recently, she announced, via her Twitter handle @cuppymusic, her plans to award university scholarships to 10 indigent students this year. She tweeted: "I plan to send 10 people to the university this year, and I'm so proud to say I have completed with my first student! Akeem Owolabi is off to Unilag! #Blessed." Her maiden tour, "Cuppy Takes Africa", was documented as an eight-episode docu-series, which aired on Fox Life Africa in 2016 and The Africa Channel in 2017. In April 2014, Cuppy was appointed by the Ministry of Tourism, Culture and National Orientation as the tourism ambassador for the country's "Fascinating Nigeria" campaign. Despite being born into a wealthy home she has never allowed that to get into her head. Her down-to-earth nature marvels many. Unlike other rich kids who parade themselves in disdain and arrogance, DJ Cuppy has embraced humanity with meekness and kindness. Cuppy is passionate about humanity. She has never looked down on the less privileged. "If there is one thing she loathes, it's the sight of her fellow human in distress; she is ever ready to help. She donates to the needy. I think she is living in the teachings and guidance of her father, Femi who is also a cheerful giver", a close source to the Otedolas. Indeed, if the history of billionaires in Africa were to be documented, Otedola's name would stand out. It is no exaggeration that he is respected by all. He dines and wines with the most powerful across the world. The Epe, Lagos-born business tycoon is a rare gem. He also realised quite early in life that he doesn't need to be under anybody's shadow to actualise his beautiful dreams.