Ten days after being beaten into a coma, Ugandan musician Moses Ssekibogo aka Mowzey Radio of the Goodlyfe Crew died today at the intensive care unit at Case Hospital in Kampala. Case clinic confirmed the death of 33-year-old Mowzey Radio's death in a statement. His birthday found him in hospital. "The management of Case Hospital regrest to announce the passing of Moses ssekibogo alias Moze Radio today 1st February 2018 at 6.00am. There will be a press conference at 11am." Among the first people to mourh his death was Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni. "I have been told about the untimely death of musician Moses Ssekibogo aka Mowzey Radio. I had only recently made a financial contribution towards his treatment and hoped he would get better. He was a talented young person with a great future ahead of him. May he rest in peace," Museveni said on twitter. Mowzey radio was one of the musicians who composed the Tubonga Nawe in support of President Museveni during the campaigns for teh 2016 elections. The song featured Uganda's best in Jose Chameleon, Bebe Cool, Radio & Weasel, Juliana, Rema Namakua, Mun*G. He will be buried on Saturday at Kaga Nakawuka. Last week's incident Radio was reportedly knocked out cold by assailants last week in Entebbe after an altercation at De Bar. Police have since made several arrests as they seek answers. No one has yet been charged. Among those picked up was George Egesa, owner of the bar from where Mowzey was assaulted and then admitted to Emmanuel Clinic in Entebbe, transferred to Nsambya then to Case where hours later where doctors conducted a brain surgery. Case Hospital, where Mowzey Radio is admitted, was last week the centre of media attention again after large crowds converged there soon after the arrival of Kampala City socialite Brian Kirumira aka Bryan White. (read about AK47 DEATH in similar incident Page 2) White arrived to check on Mowzey Radio, and handed sh25 million to his relatives to help clear medical bills. He also handed sh5m to the hospitals general manager who received Mowzey Radio. In a press briefing, he announced new initiatives by the Uganda Bryan White Fundation to support youth in the country in the fight against poverty. AK47 death The incident comes about three years since Emmanuel Mayanja Hummertone aka AK47 was beaten in a bar in Kabalagala before he died on arrival at Nsambya hospital, after he reportedly cracked his skull. The singer was from the musical family that included brothers Joseph Mayanja aka Jose Chameleone, Pius Mayanja aka Pallaso and Douglas Mayanja aka Weasle. Reports then incidated that AK47, was beaten first at a bar and then went to the washroom to clean up, where he is thought to have slipped and fallen. The bar DEJAVU, belonged to Jeff Kiwanuka, a former manager of the singing duo of Radio and Weasel.