Ammara Brown fans, Ammartians, were left tongue tied on Saturday at the National Arts Merit Awards (NAMA) when the Akiliz songstress failed to land the Most Outstanding Female Musician award which went to Gospel diva Janet Manyowa. Ammara was heavily tipped to take home the award after a successful year in 2017. However, her legion of fans have taken to social media to express their shock.. Goodnight to everyone who is also shocked that @janetmanyowa is the most outstanding female winner at the #NAMA2018 😲🤕 - ZEZURUROCKSTAR🇿🇼 (@ZEZURUROCKSTAR) February 17, 2018 Most of the fans shared the same sentiments with Zezuru Rockstar stating that the award obviously belonged to Ammara Brown and was rigged of that opportunity. Besides being a heavy fan of @AmmaraBrown ,i personally think that Ammara deserved this award she worked so hard and Akiliz was a hit anyways everything happens for a reason congratulations @janetmanyowa - the__ammartian (@the__ammartian) February 18, 2018 That wasn't fairly don female artist of the year obvious is Ammara brown tt's wat we noe but only tt Janet manyowa is the gospel artist so she shud won award doesn't make sense pipo shud stop rigging pliizzzz - Seanking (@SeankinzSe) February 18, 2018 However Ammara Brown responded to the complaints today on her Instagram page and said the NAMAs are not based on facts but opinions. The decision is entirely up to the judges and they battle it out themselves. "Many of you feel I was "robbed" of awards, but let's take a moment. The NAMAs are not based on facts, they are based on opinions. A panel of anonymous judges observe your work and and battle it out among themselves. "My numbers don't lie. Ammartia you are the biggest Zimbabwean fan base under any female by far. My debut album reached number two on iTunes Charts in its first week while Akiliz has climbed Trace Africa Charts, it hit half a million views in six weeks, don't get me started on all the tours I did and to top it off your votes made it Song of the year for 2017 on the Star FM Charts, but these are facts and the NAMAs aren't based on facts. "I understand your frustrations but they have reiterated continuously that it is not a popularity contest. People's choice is the only category the public can vote for; in fact I was grateful there was a winner because some categories weren't even afforded. Let's keep moving forward Ammartia because we have bigger goals to achieve this year." said Brown. The hit song Akiliz currently stands 630, 647 views on youtube. Meanwhile Jah Prayzah walked away with three awards also scooping song of the year award with his song Ndini Ndamubata which has torched debate as Soul Jah Love's Pamamonya ipapo was a nominee. Winky D was awarded the People's Choice Award. Below is the Full list of NAMA Awards Winners: Theatre Awards Outstanding Actor Everson Ndlovu in Liberation Outstanding Actress Rumbidzai Karize in Liberation Outstanding Theatrical Production Liberation by Savanna Trust Special Mention The Dream by Chaplin High School Drama Club Outstanding Director Matesu Dube for Warrior Spoken Word Awards Outstanding Poet Tinashe Tafirenyika Outstanding Comedian Nqobizitha Dube aka Q Dube Literary Arts Awards Outstanding First Creative Published Works Behind The Wall Everywhere by Farai Mungoshi (Mungoshi Press) Special Mention Vicious Circle by Stephen Mutsago Outstanding Children's Book The Unwelcome Visitor by Farai Nyandoro (Jomo Kenyatta Foundation) Outstanding Fiction Whose Land Is It Anyway by Benjamin S Sibanda Special Mention Mars His Sword by Philani A Nyoni Visual Arts Awards Outstanding 2 Dimensional Work Gumbeze Renherera by Anthony Bumhira Special Mention Together Enjoying by Resta Chikomo Outstanding 3 Dimensional Work Washing Hair by Edson Kangadza Outstanding Mix Media Work Mhodzi Dzemusango by Semina Mpofu Outstanding Exhibition Woman by Miriro Mwandiyambira At First Floor Gallery Dance Awards Outstanding Female Dancer Christina Jenkins in Ghost Outstanding Male Dancer Stephanie Thomas in Phantom Outstanding Dance Group Breakthrough Productions Special Mention St Peters Tokoyo School - Antalia Expo in Turkey Outstanding Choreographer Timikha Fisher - Listen Film And Television Awards Outstanding Actress Jesesi Mungoshi in Muzita Rababa Outstanding Actor Anthony Tongani in Conflicts Outstanding Music Video Zino Irema (Ndirikukuwonai Zvangu) By Andy "Cutta" Sobhuza featuring Takura Outstanding Screen Production (TV) The Arthur C Evans Show directed By Trey Ncube Outstanding Screen Production - Short Film Seiko Directed by Sydney Taivavashe Outstanding Screen Production - Full Length Film Muzita Rababa directed by Nick Zemura Media Awards Outstanding Journalist - Print Tinashe Muchuri - NewsDay Outstanding Journalist - Radio Tawanda Gudhlanga - SFM Outstanding Journalist - Tv Andrew Neshamba - ZBC Outstanding Online Media Zimbuzz Music Awards Outstanding Female Musician Janet Manyowa Outstanding Male Musician Jah Prayzah Outstanding Album Gafa Futi by Winky D Outstanding Song Mdhara Vachauya by Jah Prayzah Special Awards Outstanding Promoter 2 Kings Entertainment Arts Personality Award Iyasa National Arts Service Award Nigel Munyati People's Choice Award Winky D