February 27, 2018, Dubai, UAE, & Lomé, Togo - ORAGROUP, the holding company of the African banking group ORABANK, and CR2, a global banking software vendor, today announced that ORABANK has selected CR2’s BankWorld digital banking platform. Following a comprehensive search of the market, the Togo-based bank, which operates in 12 French-speaking countries across West and Central Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Guinea Conakry, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo), awarded the contract to CR2, a leading banking software innovator, who will deliver a suite of self-service digital and agency banking services. With ORABANK’s move to digital imminent, CR2 is seen as the ideal partner to expand its channel offering and help the bank continue to compete at the highest levels. “This solution will help us provide a digital experience that is consistent across all of our channels operating in 12 countries in Africa,” said Binta Toure Ndoye, CEO of ORABANK Group. “It guarantees both revenue generation and cost-saving initiatives; provides a modern customer experience; and mutually benefits both ORABANK Group and our valued customers,” Ndoye added. Under the terms of the agreement, CR2’s solution will empower ORABANK to meet its branch efficiency objectives and generate additional revenue through the launch of targeted and personalised services. ORABANK has prioritised the digitalisation of its line of service as a means of both expanding its reach in the countries where it operates, and adapting its offering in a fast moving and competitive environment. Commenting on the agreement, CR2 CEO, Fintan Byrne, said: “This contract is an example of our continued expanding footprint across Africa and we are pleased to provide ORABANK with the digital tools necessary to deliver an exceptional customer experience across multiple banking touchpoints”. About Oragroup Through its ORABANK brand, ORAGROUP operates in 12 French-speaking countries of West and Central Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon, Guinea Conakry, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) and in four monetary zones (WAEMU, ECCAS, Guinea Conakry, Mauritania). With 143 bank branches and more than 1,750 employees, Oragroup offers its clients, be it large national, regional and international firms, SMEs or private individuals - a wide range of banking products and services based on proximity and reactivity. Oragroup strives to achieve financial inclusion by rolling out innovative solutions and focusing on previously neglected segments of the population. This commitment is reflected in its CSR approach which is an integral part of its strategy and is a priority of its governing bodies, focused on energy transition, environmental and social risk management, as well as the well-being of the public and its employees. For more information, please visit www.orabank.net or follow us on LinkedIn, @GroupeOrabank on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Google+, You Tube. About CR2 CR2 is at the forefront of the digital banking revolution, consistently delivering on the needs of end users, embracing next-gen technologies and digital disruptions that are enabling new experiences in the omnichannel digital banking market – Mobile, Internet and ATM. Our maturity and experience has enriched our product, providing a depth and breadth of functionality that is unrivalled in the market. With deployments in over 100 banks in 60 countries worldwide, CR2 enables banks achieve digital transformation and deliver a consistent, cross-channel, exceptional user experience. CR2 has regional offices located in Dublin, Dubai, Amman, Bangalore and Perth with additional presence in London, Moscow, Lagos and Johannesburg. To find out more about CR2, please visit: www.cr2.com or follow us on LinkedIn and Twitter. Press contacts CR2 - Head of MarketingLorraine Fahy+353 1 4339 241lorraine.fahy@cr2.com Oragroup - Director of CommunicationDelphine Ndiaye+228 92 52 08 04 / +228 99 86 41 44delphine.ndiaye@orabank.net 35°Nord - Press Relations AgencyNicolas Teisserenc+33 6 18 09 66 90nt@35nord.com