Uyo — PROFESSOR of Agricultural and Development Economics, University of Uyo, UNIUYO, Akwa Ibom State, Professor Gabriel Umoh, has urged the Federal Government to urgently halt the spate of violence unleashed on innocent citizens by fishing out sponsors of the herdsmen. Prof Imoh said the only solution to the frequent killing of innocent citizens by armed herdsmen was to unmask sponsors who armed the herdsmen with sophisticated assault rifles and bring them to face the laws of the land. Speaking in an interview with Vanguard in Uyo, yesterday, Umoh, who is also the Director, Centre for Wetland, University of Uyo, condemned the murder of Nigerians in cold blood by the herdsmen. He lamented the inability of the government at all levels to perform their constitutional role of protection of lives and property of the citizens. "What we read and hear in the media is half-hearted statement of blame and counter-blame, unnecessary rationalization of the how and the why the killing are taking place," Umoh said. He also chided the law enforcement agencies for failing in their statutory functions to prevent the killings from taking place but lauded the National Assembly for issuing a marching order on the Nigerian Police Force to fish out and parade suspected killers. "This kind of attitudes is an indication that the law enforcement agencies have failed in their constitutional responsibility to protect lives and property of the citizenry and that human lives does not matter to them. "In other climes, whenever a citizen's life is lost, government waste no time and spare no effort in bringing perpetrators of such crime to book. Does it mean that live of Nigerians do not matter to our government and law enforcement agencies?' He also raised concern over the unregulated grazing , stressing that if the practice was allowed to continue for a long time, it could lead to loss of vegetation cover, erosion and desertification. "Our position is that cattle rearing are private business and should be treated as such. As a crop farmer does not have the right to illegally move to other people's plots to cultivate without necessary contractual arrangement so too the cattle herders do not have the right to illegally graze their cattle on other people's plots/farmland."