K24's Ian Wafula is on the verge of losing all his cars after a sale agreement turned sour. Wafula narrated on Instagram the ownership of his new car has been the subject of police investigation for the last few months. "It has been a depressing couple of months after a car I owned for a whole year become subject of investigations. Traded in my Toyota Axio for a VW Jetta at a Car Bazaar on Ngong Rd owned by this guy here Collins Bootsy Muraya and instead he did not remit the money to the Original Jetta owner. The owner in turn claims that's after Collins vanished he sold the car to his Lawyer who had eyed it and the two managed to change its ownership; all this while I was in possession of the car," Wafula explained. He went on to provide details of how he traded his Axio and added Sh300,000 he had raised from the sale of his IST and was promised to get the logbook after his Axio had been sold and full amount (Sh950,000) paid to the Jetta owner. FULL PAYMENTS "One year down the line, November 2017; a lady who claimed the car was her brother's stopped me on the road home. She waved me down while on a motorbike seemingly she had followed after spotting the car. She made me speak to her brother Peter on phone that claimed he took the car to the bazaar but Collins was yet to make full payments of the car to him. We exchanged contacts and agreed to meet the following day on how to trace Collins. "Later I would receive endless calls from a lady identified as Jolly who even showed up at my work place to collect "her car." A further call from Central Police summoning me confused me beyond. The Officer, Elias Kiptum said I was handling a vehicle I didn't own. Upon doing a search on the NTSA portal the car was under the name of Jolly contrary to my first search while purchasing which showed Peter's company name," Wafula narrated. Collins, the car dealer, told Nairobi News that he paid the Jetta owner Peter in full and was shocked when he heard about the dispute of ownership. "The deal was very good and so when he (Peter) asked to be paid in cash I did not hesitate but I remember he was in a hurry and I told him to acknowledge receiving the cash in a text message. I don't know how the car ownership was changed online a year later while Ian was still using it but as he mentioned in his post, the matter is still being investigated," Collins said. CALL BACK When Nairobi News contacted Peter on the changing of ownership to his lawyer's name, he requested to call us back. He had not call back by the time of publishing. Wafula has some advice to people seeking to purchase vehicles. "Thousands of innocent buyers fall in the hands of such individuals, especially we young people; don't to caught up in excitement while purchasing an asset be keen to check the Car history with KRA before checking with NTSA's portal which I have since learnt is highly temperable. As it stands I might have just lost two cars in essence. Stay Woke." Very often social pressure and expectations force us to hide behind our jobs; that our lives are perfect, free of baggage. NO. It has been a depressing couple of months after a car I owned for a whole year become subject of investigations. Traded in my Toyota Axio for a VW Jetta at a Car Bazaar on Ngong Rd owned by this guy here Collins Bootsy Muraya and instead he did not remit the money to the Original Jetta owner. The owner in turn claims that's after Collins vanished he sold the car to his Lawyer who had eyed it and the two managed to change its ownership; all this while I was in possession of the car. Police suspect foul play but until investigations are done all I have are many unanswered questions. Thousands of innocent buyers fall in the hands of such individuals, especially we young people; don't to caught up in excitement while purchasing an asset be keen to check the Car history with KRA before checking with NTSA's portal which I have since learnt is highly temperable. As it stands I might have just lost two cars in essence. Stay Woke. A post shared by Ian Wafula (@ian_wafula) on Feb 15, 2018 at 9:24pm PST