The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has declared as false alarm, allegations of burglary attempt on the Cargo Hold of Air Peace aircraft at 18 Right runway of the Lagos Airport. Categorically, the NCAA described the incident as unfounded. The spokesman of NCAA, Sam Adurogboye, disclosed this yesterday. According to Adurogboye, conclusion was arrived at after the regulatory authority reviewed all the reports from the relevant agencies concerning the incident , which proved to be untrue. According to him, investigations by the regulatory authority, security agencies and other agencies at the Lagos Airport indicated that Air Peace raised a false alarm as the alleged burglary is largely unsubstantiated, unproven and should be discountenanced. In a statement, Adurogboye said: "Last week, there were reports that the Pilot-in-Command (PIC) of Air Peace Flight no. APK 7138 with Aircraft no. 5N-BUJ had alerted the Lagos Control Tower that the Aircraft's AFT Cargo Compartment has been opened. "According to the pilot in his report to the Tower, he noticed that the cargo compartment light came up for 15 seconds and went off. This means someone has opened the compartment's door. "The Air Traffic Controller on duty confirmed receiving the report at about 1933hrs (1833GMT). In line with Standard and Recommended Practices (SARPs), Aviation Security personnel were at the Holding Point of Runway 18R monitoring the departure/take off of both Air Peace and Arik Air aircraft. "The PIC alarm triggered an immediate response. The Escort team overtook the Arik aircraft for a more proximate field look and access to the Air Peace Aircraft. "On full speed, with the full lights on, no person(s) was found within the vicinity of the aircraft. Importantly, the Arik aircraft which was on queue immediately after the Air Peace aircraft was similarly put on observation at this point. "The Arik Air aircraft also had its full complement of lights on towards the Air Peace aircraft having being aware of his counterpart's conversation with the Tower. With benefit of this full view, neither movement nor any sign of person(s) was sighted around the aircraft." He further said: "Thereafter the Air Peace PIC requested to taxi back to the Apron at D45 to check if anything had been stolen. In addition, he wanted to clear his doubts that a bomb may have been thrown into the aircraft. "At D45, the Airport Chief Security called the NPF-EOD (Explosive Ordinance Disposal) team who reported with their equipment at about 2026hrs. Passengers were disembarked at 2028hrs. The EOD team joined by FAAN's Aviation Security and Air Peace Security conducted a search on the Cargo compartment and the passenger cabin of the aircraft. "The search was completed at about 2055hrs and the aircraft was declared safe by the EOD Team leader. The Air Peace PIC therefore briefed the passengers of the EOD's all clear decision and that the service shall be operated. All passengers re-boarded and the aircraft was escorted to the holding area for take - off by the Escort teams from FAAN AVSEC and the Military Airside Patrol.