Head coach of JKU, Ali Sleiman Haji, insist his side stand a good chance of making history on Wednesday away to big guns Zesco United, when the two sides face-off in the second leg of the preliminary round. The Zanzibar champions held Zesco to a barren draw at home last week. Zesco, reigning Zambia champions, threw everything at JKU at Amaan Stadium in Zanzibar but found the home side goalkeeper Juma Ali in inspired form. Records have it that no Zanzibar side has ever eliminated a Zambian club in continental football and Zesco must now ensure to finish the business at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium in Ndola, a venue they remain unbeaten in the African club championship. However, Sleiman believes history is there to be broken especially after his stubborn charges made life difficult for Zesco last week. "We got a 0-0 draw at home and now we are looking at getting 1-1 or 2-2 result here in Zambia so that we can qualify to the next round," Sleiman said in Ndola upon arrival. "Zesco is a big team but we are going to fight so that we can qualify to the next round." JKU will be banking on the form of their talented 19-year-old playmaker Fesal Salum Abdala who had an outstanding game despite goalkeeper Juma Ali taking the man-of -the-match award for standing between Zesco and goal. Meanwhile, Zesco coach Tenant Chembo has also warned his team that their reputation at home should never been taken for granted. "We have to work hard. We know it is a qualifier and we have to work towards that objective. If we don't work hard, that record will be meaningless," Chembo said. Chembo will be hoping for a more ruthless approach from strikers Lazarus Kambole and Jesse Were as Zesco seek to stay in the race for an unprecedented third straight group stage appearance in continental action. The winners will face either ASEC Mimosa of Cote d'Ivoire or Beninese side, Buffles. Fixtures Tuesday, 20 February 2018 Williamsville AC (Cote d'Ivoire) vs Stade Malien (Mali) (1-1) Olympic de Bangui (Central African Republic) vs ES Setif (Algeria) (0-6) El Hilal (Sudan) vs LISCR (Liberia) (0-1) Wednesday, 21 February 2018 KCCA (Uganda) vs CNaPs Sport (Madagascar) (1-2) Mbabane Swallows (Swaziland) vs Bantu (Lesotho) (4-2) Aduana (Ghana) vs El Tahadi (Libya) (0-1) Mounana (Gabon) vs RC Kadiogo (Burkina Faso) (0-1) MFM (Nigeria) vs AS Real (Mali) (1-1) MC Alger (Algeria) vs AS Otoho (Congo) (0-2) Horoya (Guinea) vs AS FAN (Niger) (3-1) Makkassa (Egypt) vs Generation Foot (Senegal) (0-2) Saint Louis (Seychelles) vs Young Africans (Tanzania) (0-1) El Merreikh (Sudan) vs Township Rollers (Botswana) (0-3) Leones Vegatarianos (Equatorial Guinea) vs Gor Mahia (Kenya) (0-2) Esperance (Tunisia) vs Concorde (Mauritania) (1-1) Eding Sport (Cameroon) vs Plateau United (Nigeria) (0-3) AS Port (Togo) vs AC Leopards (Congo) (1-2) Zesco (Zambia) vs JKU (Zanzibar) (0-0) ASEC Mimosas (Cote d'Ivoire) vs Buffles (Benin) (1-1) UD Songo (Mozambique) vs Ngaya (Comoros) (1-1) Be Forward (Malawi) vs AS Vita (DR Congo) (0-4) FC Platinum (Zimbabwe) vs Primeiro de Agosto (Angola) (0-3) Pamplemousses (Mauritius) vs Bidvest (South Africa) (0-2) Difaa El Jadida (Morocco) 10-0 Benfica (Guinea Bissau) Benfica (Guinea Bissau) vs Difaa El Jadida (Morocco) (0-10) Lydia Academic (Burundi) vs Rayon Sports (Rwanda) (1-1) Saturday, 24 February 2918 Armed Forces (Gambia) vs Zanaco (Zambia) (0-3)