Makurdi — The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has asked the federal government to live up to its responsibility by protecting every citizen of the country irrespective of tribes and religion. Wike asked the government to admit its failure for not being able to protect lives and property of people in Benue State. He made the call during his visit to the state to commemorate with the people of the state over the death of 73 victims of herdsmen attacks. Wike stated that his visit to the grave side of the dead was to console the people over the injuries herdsmen meted out on people of the state. He charged the people of the state to start defending themselves, stressing that he had noticed the problems of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which prompted him to be fighting all the injustices being meted out on his government. According to him, "We have decided to come to this state to identify with the people over what happeneds; our visit has nothing to do with politics," adding that, "time has come to rise beyond party politics but to face problem that affect our people. "Even if you hate them, you ought to identify and commensurate with them. "For us as Christians, we cherish life, we know what it takes to lose a person let alone 73 people who did not commit any offence before they were killed like animals. "I'm just coming from the graveside, it is so painful, your pains are our pains. God will fight for you but that does not mean we should fold our arms and watch. We should not misinterpret the bible. "I was shouting this but nobody believed me, now it is in Benue State. My brother identify with your people, they are your soldiers, your police; defend yourself but that does not that mean you should take the law into your hands "What I am saying is that when a robber comes to your house and knock at your door, do not say God help me, you must help yourself first. "They have inflicted serious injury in Benue, many have been turned to orphans, others to widows. "This country must sit down and find solution to the menace. Let the leaders admit their failure. Defend yourself does not mean take laws into your hands. When you sleep by 2a.m. and somebody knocks at your door and you say God help me, you must help yourself first. We will support you but that will not bring back the dead. We will not abandon you this time." Wike who came with leaders and elders of his state, made a donation of N200 million to the state to help the displaced persons. He told his guest to brace up for attacks over his visit, saying:, "Our visit is another problem for you but I am sorry if I have brought problem. I do not bring problem but if they insist, sorry, they will take the problem because everything is politicised in Nigeria." Responding, Governor Samuel Ortom appreciated his visitors for the show of friendship displayed. He reinstated his call for the resignation of the Inspector General of Police (IG), Ibrahim Idris, for failing in his responsibilities to arrest those already identified as behind Benue State attacks. He called for the arrest of the Miyati Allah group whom he said is responsible for the killings in the state.