Reputable travel website TripAdvisor has rated Nairobi as a top world destination and named two Kenyan hotels among the best in Africa. Hemingways Nairobi, was voted among the top 25 hotels in Africa while Nairobi emerged as the third most trending destination globally in the TripAdvisor Travelers' Choice 2018 Awards. The hotel was also a winner in three other categories. Luxury hotel operator said that Kenya is well positioned to reassert its command of Africa's hospitality and tourism market. Hemingways Collection Operations Director Mr Ross Evans said the accolades are a boost to the local tourism industry and added that the country can use the travelers' vote of confidence to increase investment in the sector and accelerate marketing of destination Kenya to the world. "The Travelers' Choice Awards are an affirmation that Hemingways Nairobi is on the right footing in offering top quality service to our visitors. It also gives us confidence that our newly reopened Hemingways Watamu has the potential to dislodge other properties such as in Zanzibar and Mauritius from the list of top beachfront hotels in the region," he said. The Collection recently refurbished the iconic Hemingways Watamu with a Sh1.2 billion investment as it seeks to raise the bar in the luxury hotel market in eastern Africa. LUXURY HOTEL "We introduced unparalleled service offering with Hemingways Nairobi and with the just concluded refurbishment works in Watamu, we are confident of winning the hearts of beach holiday seekers," Mr Evans enthused. Hemingways Nairobi emerged a winner in four categories of the 2018 Traveler's Choice 2018 Awards, including Top 25 Luxury Hotels in Kenya; Top 25 Hotels in Kenya; Top 25 Hotels for Service in Kenya and Top 25 Hotels in Africa. It was one of the only two Kenyan hotels on the Africa list with travelers praising its "colonial style elegance with lovely grounds and top service as an enticing feature." Hemingways Nairobi General Manager Richard Kimenyi said the ranking in the luxury hotels category reaffirms its brand positioning as a top luxury boutique hotel. "It is also noteworthy that most of the other hotels named in the four categories are beach and safari properties. To stand out from this crowd is testament that our visitors have been happy with us and we promise to continue improving our service," said Mr Kimenyi.