Malawi is scheduled to host second International Tourism Expo 2018 in April as one way of marketing the tourism sector globally. Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Henry Mussa Wednesday revealed this to journalists in Lilongwe when he toured some establishments under his Ministry. He said the International Tourism Expo 2018 dubbed "Takulandirani" is slated for April 26 to 28, 2018 and is expected to attract local and international exhibitors. Mussa recalled that the country hosted the first ever International Tourism Expo last year where it received resounding support from various tourism operators locally, regionally and internationally. "We were impressed with how the 2017 Tourism Expo was conducted and managed and we need to move forward to involve more players in the sector globally as one way of putting the country on the world tourism map," he explained. He pointed out that the Expo provides the country an opportunity to see how it could develop the industry by sharing experiences and challenges with other countries within the region and oversees. "We are planning to have a very attractive Expo and we are encouraging local and international exhibitors to come and patronize the 2018 Expo-Takulandirani for the mutual benefit," Mussa outlined. He said during last year's Expo, some operators viewed that the government needed to look at the management of visa issues and tourism establishments for the country to attract more tourists. "We took note of the concerns, and we are working with the Ministry of Home Affairs to see how best this issue could best be tackled for the betterment of the industry. We are hoping that soon we will have answers to the issue," the Minister added. The 2018 International Tourism Expo is coming at a time Malawi has been named to be among the top 10 destination for tourism in the World. Malawi last year put forward a suggestion that countries needed to critically look at the issue of rebranding their tourism products in order to facilitate its development. Many people in the country viewed that the tourism sector could be the right replacement of the tobacco industry as the main foreign exchange earner for the country. The tobacco industry is faced with continued campaign of anti-smoking lobby which is threatening the prospects of its growth thereby reducing its market potential worldwide.