As the nation battle to be self sufficient in electricity, ASTEVEN Group has officially launched the first Sub Sahara Renewable Energy Academy in Nigeria. Students of the academy will be trained green vendors, service providers, installers, technicians and dealers in renewable energy technologies. Graduates will receive global certifications that will eliminate the quacks that currently operate in the industry. Speaking during the launch of the ASTEVEN Renewable Energy Academy and Centre of Excellence, in Ogun State, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, ASTEVEN Group, Dr. Sunny Akpoyibo, said: "This Academy was borne out of a necessity to develop local capacity, change the course of power access in Nigeria and increase job creation. "The academy located along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway its arguably the first of its kind in Sub Sahara Africa, built and structured to support the rapidly developing markets for renewable energy and energy efficient industry." ASTEVEN has installed over 20 megawatts of renewable energy in Nigeria and it translate into Carbon emission reduction of 20744tCO2eq per year in Nigeria. He noted that, In spite of these huge efforts, it is unacceptable that about 60 percent of Nigerians still do not have access to modern forms of energy. It is also worrisome that about 94 percent of the population with access depends hugely on fossil fuel generators, kerosene, wood fuel etc. "We have all been concerned by the fact that the lack of energy in Nigeria is one of the greatest threats to the nation's development.The Government of Nigeria recognizes this and has put in significant effort and resources to improve energy access in the country. "Renewable Energy holds the key to changing this dependence. Since the adoption of the Paris Agreement on climate change in 2015, the world is travelling in this direction. The Government has demonstrated its commitments not to be left behind by ratifying the Agreement and submitting an ambitious Nationally Determined Contributions."