Sequel to successful outing of season-2 of the Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) last year, Heritage Bank Plc, your Timeless Wealth Partner has again partnered MultiChoice Nigeria Limited, owners of the DSTV and GOTV brands to bring the third season of the entertainment to viewers across Africa and beyond. The Big Brother Naija 2018 was launched on Sunday night with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu as the host with 20 house mates battling for the winning prize of N45 million which include a cash gift of N25 million and SUV Jeep among others. The theme of this year's edition is "Double Wahala." The host said one of the innovations in this season was that viewers could give housemates secret tasks to do and some lucky viewers could win cash prizes of N1 million during the duration of the show. The house mates will stay at the Big Brother House for the next 85 days to entertain viewers and the show promises to show case a lot of drama, intrigues and romance. Speaking at the live streaming of the opening session in Lagos at the weekend, Mr. Fela Ibidapo, Group Head, Corporate Communications of Heritage Bank said: "When the last season of the reality show was about to start, some of us did know what we were getting into. We are back here again because last year was successful." He said Heritage Bank believed in creativity and innovation and expressed appreciation to MultiChoice for the opportunity to be part of this edition of the show. About 20 house mates were invited to the house in the third season of the show which began last Sunday night, with four of them debuting in a reality show for the first time in their lives. This is an increase over 12 that participated in last year's edition. The new comers are Nina Chinoso 21 years- old, Vanessa Williams aka Vandora from Edo State, Teddy A 29 and Kelvin Burle aka K-Brule 23 years-old. The others are Alexandria (a lady) 22, Adedayo Adewunmi aka Dee-One, a comedian; Princess Onyejekwe 25, Miracle Igbekwe, a pilot and model; Ahneeka 25 years and a TV presenter; Rico Savey,25; Bam Bam,28 years-old freelancer in acting and singing; Bitto Brain 26, Ifu Ennanda, an actress and business broker; Leo 25 years-old corporate hustler with a retail firm; Khloe 24 and a fashion designer; Angela 31 years-old film maker, Anto, Tobi- 23, Cee-C and Omololu Adetokunbo aka Lolu. In the season two of the show, besides providing financial assistance to the BB Naija contenders, Heritage Bank helped them with business and advisory support services for between six to nine months. This support helped to chart a veritable course and equip the housemates with the necessary tools to make informed business choices during their individuals' careers. In a bid to bring additional value to Nigerian culture, Heritage Bank also ensures that in partnering with the housemates, they take positive steps towards creating, preserving and transferring wealth to Nigerians. Heritage Bank had also organised an SME enhancement capacity programme for the Ex-Housemates of the BB Naija and other emerging 21st century entrepreneurs at an SME enhancement capacity training programme. Big Brother Nigeria was designed by its creators to attract controversies and create agenda for social discussions.