Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has mourned renowned musician Moses Ssekibogo aka Mowzey Radio who passed on early on Thursday morning. The rich voiced artiste died an the Intensive Care Unit at Case Hospital in Kampala, nine days after he was beaten into a coma during a brawl at an entertainment pub in Entebbe, some 35km from Kampala. The management of Case Hospital regret to announce the passing of Moses Ssekibogo alias Moze Radio today 1st February 2018 at 6:00 am. There will be a press conference at 11:00am at the Case Hospital board room on the 7th floor. pic.twitter.com/PvRIShl2Wl -- Case Hospital (@CaseHospital) February 1, 2018 Museveni, who only recently contributed UGX30 million (about Sh800,000) towards Mowzey's medial expenses, described the deceased as a talented singer and one with a great future. Have been told about the untimely death of musician Moses Ssekibogo aka Mowzey Radio. I had only recently made a financial contribution towards his treatment and hoped he would get better. He was a talented young person with a great future ahead of him. May he rest in peace. -- Yoweri K Museveni (@KagutaMuseveni) February 1, 2018 EULOGIZED At same time, Radio has been massively eulogized on social media by among others the National Super Alliance (Nasa) CEO Norman Magaya. Magaya described the musician's death as 'shocking and unbelievable.' Mowzey Radio dead. Unbelievable and shocking . What a talent he was. RIP. -- Norman Magaya (@amugira) February 1, 2018 Similarly hundreds of fans thronged Case Hospital in grief, moments after it was announced the talented singer had breathed his last. Moses Ssekibogo, aka singer Mowzey Radio is dead. Stream our live coverage here, https://t.co/KZsedBzdsx #NBSUpdates #RIPMowzeyRadio pic.twitter.com/UZXovt0Ckm -- NBS Television (@nbstv) February 1, 2018 Fans wait outside Case hospital in Kampala following the death of Singer Mowzey Radio Reports Kakumirizi Michael pic.twitter.com/OLO6kQ2MKD -- Daily Monitor (@DailyMonitor) February 1, 2018 Born Moses Sseikibogo 33 years ago, Mowzey Radio was part of the Goodlyfe Crew alongside Doughlas Mayanja aka Weasel. Having started as a back up singer to famed Ugandan artiste Jose Chameleone, he went on to release his first solo was titled Sweet Lady. Some of the most popular hits that he produced with Weasel include Nakudata, Bread and Butter, Kuku, Nyambula and Magnetic.