A new platform, flyamco.com, launched by Amco Travel and Tours Limited is set to improve customer experience and address challenges in the travel and hotel industries in Nigeria. Speaking at the launch of the platform in Abuja, Chief Executive Officer of the company, Ahmed MohammedSani said the platform becomes necessary to offer Nigerians a technology based solutions to the challenges in the aviation and hotel industry. With the platform, individuals can make booking for flights and hotels at discounted prices and still enjoy quality services. Sani decried the poor services customers get in the country, especially in the aviation and hotel sector, adding that the new platform would provide customers with oriented and top quality travel and tour services in compliance with the highest international standards. He said: "Flyamco.comwas carefully designed to provide travel related information and cost effective customer care and is amongst the highest of our priorities and we are on our toes to accomplish this task at any hour." Determined to fast track the growth of the sectors and enable them contribute more to the country's GDP, Sanistated that customers would beprovided a 24 hours service for greater convenience of e-travellers and tourists as way of boosting local tourism. "We have been in the sector for about a decade. We have been at the fore front promoting travel and tourism in Nigeria. We have prioritized comfort and quality services and have been built trust in the market. We have been operating charter flights for holy pilgrims, especially Umrah and Hajj. We explore new frontiers daily and our next option for Nigeria is to leverage technology to address challenges in the sector and offer a seamless experience that will boost our aviation and tourism sector," he said. According to him, the group do not only arrange for air fares and worldwide air tickets but also provide hotel accommodation, travel insurance, visa procurement, organise incentive groups, providing car rental services, airport hotel transfers and cruises around the world,organiselocal and international conferences, facilitate student visas across the world, especially in USA, Ukraine, Cyprus and Dubai as well as work out tailor-made packages for customers "In the spirit of tourism development and promotion in Nigeria, we have currently packaged several tourism and leisure services across Nigeria and indeed West Africa. This is aimed at promoting the unity and understanding of the various cultures, ecology, integration of our people and appreciation of the tourism potentials of Nigeria and indeed West Africa," Sani said.