Prime Minister Hailemariam Dessalegn submitted his resignation as Prime Minister of Ethiopia and EPRDF chairperson last week. He also said his resignation would give new impetus on the ongoing government's efforts of ensuring sustainable peace and stability in the country. How experts view his decision? Dr. Constantinos Berhe, a professor of public policy at the Addis Ababa University, sees the decision of the Prime Minister as the best indication of the progress of democracy in Ethiopia. "A leader who is serving at such higher level with big responsibility is expected to stay at office for four or five years in the developed nations. Since the nature of the responsibility is very demanding and challenging, it is a conscious decision of the leader if he decides to transfer power peacefully so that another leader with fresh insights can have the chance to lead. This plays big roles in supporting the ongoing democracy. That is what is happening in our country." As to him, the premier's decision is an exemplary in the history of the nation. " It can be taken as emblematic in Africa where democracy has not been well developed. Such decision also showcases the exemplary economic and political influences of Ethiopia in the Horn ." he says. Dr. Firdissa Jabessa, Assistant Professor at Addis Ababa University, says the decision to transfer power peacefully will further speed up the democracy building in the country. "It seems that the Prime Minister has come to the decision to be part of the solution rather than the problems. I believe it will contribute significantly in the efforts of restoring peace and stability though it is a late decision." He also states his concern regarding what would happen next. "In order to benefit from the decision and establish sustainable peace and order, it has to be authentic power transition considering the prevailing ethnicity. The party ought carefully elect a capable prime minister who is strong and determined enough to restore the broken public trust." He adds that the peaceful transition is not the ultimate solution by itself; it has to be followed by the proper procedure that ensures sustainable peace and stability. To this end, the public has to extend its support, he says. Kebede Debelie, an author and journalist, appreciates the significance of peaceful transfer of state power as it will strengthen the growing democracy in the country. "The decision of the Prime Minister is one of the features of democratic developmental state. He has been running the country with skillful leadership during the last six years. I am so hopeful that this will be a great lesson for African leaders as a whole."