The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has said that it has reinforced security at its major airports to prevent any kind of breach as recently alleged when reports indicated that there was theft on taxiing business jets. The General Manager, Corporate Affairs, FAAN, Mrs. Yakubu Dati said that plans have reached advanced stage for the agency to install Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras at the strategic locations within the airside to monitor activities in order to forestall aircraft poaching and other incidences. She also disclosed that FAAN has commenced evacuation of abandoned aircraft at the airside of the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. "At least, 13 aircraft belonging to different airlines have been abandoned at the airside of the airport for several years with their owners reluctant to relocate them despite several warnings issued by the agency in the past," Yakubu said. She disclosed that FAAN had severally told the owners of these aircraft to relocate them away from where they are presently abandoned without any fruitful response from them, stressing that where they are presently abandoned constitute danger to safety and smooth ground movements of airplanes. So far, she said four of the abandoned aircraft were relocated last week while additional four were moved on Monday. She gave the names of the aircraft relocated last Friday by the agency as Associated Air, IRS, Dana Air and Hak Air. Others that were moved Monday were aircraft belonging to the liquidated carrier, Air Nigeria, Associated Cargo, Bellview, JedAir, Precision Aviation Handling Company and PAC, TopBrass and others. She said the relocation became necessary in order to give more space for airworthy aircraft to land, take off and manoeuvre as expected during ground movements at the airside, insisting that FAAN would continue to take safety and comfort of airport users as a top priority. She said: "The airports belong to FAAN, which means that it is the property of the Federal Government and there is no airline that is bigger than Nigeria. Nigeria has given them a long time to be able to move their aircraft and they have refused to do this. FAAN is not taking possession of their aircraft, but we are moving them away from where they are to another place within the airport where they will not serve as eyesore and where they will not constitute nuisance to activities on our airside," Mrs. Yakubu said.