Relief came the way of thousands of the inmates at the Gbajimba Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs, camp sacked from their communities by suspected herdsmen in Guma local government area of Benue state, following the donation of a motorized borehole and essential items valued at over N15million by Uzotex Charity Foundation. Making the donation to Governor Samuel Ortom at Gbajimba, the President of the Foundation, Mr. Festus Mbisiogu said the organization was moved by the plight of the victims to make the donation. Mbisiogu who heads Shanghai Engineering and Industrial Works, a mother body of the foundation, recounted his experience during the burial of the 73 persons killed during new year day attacks in the state and noted that "aside the death of those worthy Nigerians, lots of damages and losses were also incurred. "For the bereaved families, they do not only need our words of comfort but they also need to understand that Nigeria as a nation grieves with them. "Words alone is not enough to comfort them and nothing in this world will soothe their pains of loss except to hope in God and also hope of uniting with their loved ones in eternal glory. "Having stated that no help can compensate for a human loss, we then use this opportunity to put more effort to remember and care for the living, especially in this time we are faced with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. "I then call, for all hands to be on deck to alleviate the much sufferings of the common people; especially those occasioned by these crisis. Receiving the items on behalf of the government and people of the state, Governor Samuel Ortom who commended the foundation for the gesture reiterated his call for Nigeria to adopt ranching "because it is the panacea to the unending killings of innocent farmers by armed herdsmen. "For us ranching remains the global best practice and on that we stand, I urge other Nigerians to embrace the practice because open grazing is a stone age method of cattle rearing." Ortom said. Among items donated by the Foundation were: 250 bags of rice, 80 cartons of tomatoes, 300 cartons of Indomie, 10 bags of tissue paper, 40 cartons of Kings Oil, 30 bags of slippers and a motorized borehole constructed at Gbajimba.