Kampala — Boda boda 2010 patron, Abdallah Kitatta and 12 others are today expected to appear in the General Court Martial in Makindye where their case file was sent. Mr Kitatta and his co-accused persons, all members of infamous Boda boda 2010 were charged before Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence's (CMI) Unit Disciplinary Court (UDC) at Mbuya with five counts, one of which is failure to protect war materials that attracts a death sentence on conviction. Other suspects are Sowali Ngobi, Amon Twinomujuni, Joel Kibirige, Matia Ssenfuka, Hassan Ssebata, Johnson Kayondo, Hassan Ssengoba, Sunday Ssemogerere, John Ssebandeke, Hussein Mugema, Fred Bwanika and Ibrahim Ssekaja. Officials at the Makindye based Army court on Monday said that the case file had been sent to them for further management. They also revealed that a production warrant had been issued to have Mr Kitatta and his co-accused persons arraigned before the court martial today. They will be charged afresh with similar offences. "We have received the case file and we are now reviewing it to sanction appropriate charges against the suspects," said a source at court who declined to be named. At the UDC At the Unit court, Mr Kitatta and his co-accused were charged under section 119 of the UPDF Act that provides for persons subject to military law. Section 119 (1) (h), (i) provides that any person found in unlawful possession of arms, ammunitions or equipment ordinarily being the monopoly of the Defence Forces, becomes subject to military law. Mr Kitatta was arrested on January 20, a day after CMI apprehended his young brother Huzairu Kiwalabye in connection with the kidnap and killing of Case Hospital accountant, Francis Ekalungar. Ekalungar was kidnapped on January 2 as he took the hospital's money worth Shs15m to the bank. His charred body was discovered a day later at Kajjansi. CMI took over investigation into Ekalungar's gruesome murder after police detectives claimed they were stuck with case since it involved Boda boda 2010, a group loyal to the Inspector General of Police, Gen Kale Kayihura.