Green Buffaloes beat El Masry 2-1 on Tuesday afternoon at Nkoloma Stadium in Lusaka but was not enough to keep them in the competition. The Zambian club fell very short of eliminating the visitors from Egypt who beat them 4-0 in the first leg on 10 February 2018 in Port Said. Buffaloes, who were making a return to continental action since 2008 when they made second round exit from the same competition, bowed out 5-2 on aggregate on the first hurdle this time around. The home side made a promising start when midfielder Mike Katiba headed in a Felix Katongo corner with just 11 minutes played on the clock. However, that lead lasted just five minutes when Ahmed Gomaa capitalized on defensive error by Malan Gondwe to equalize and to virtually put the tie beyond the reach of Buffaloes. Buffaloes improved after the break following the arrival of striker Aubrey Chella who replaced defender Morgan Kanjolo. Chella almost made immediate impact but his header was safely collected by Masry goalkeeper Ahmed Abdelwahab. It was not until the last ten minutes that Buffaloes to reclaim the lead when defender Stephen Kabamba fired in the winner in the 86th minute. Chella was then denied again by Abdelawahab in stoppage time when the Masry goalkeeper gathered the Buffaloes strikers' attempt. Masry now march on to the next round where they will face either Simba of Tanzania or Djibouti reps Gendarmerie. Fixtures Tuesday, 20 February 2018 Masters Security (Malawi) 0-0 Petro Atletico (Angola) (0-5) Cape Town City (South Africa) 1-0 Young Buffaloes (Swaziland) (1-0) Hafia (Guinea) vs Energie (Benin) (0-1) Anse Reunion (Seychelles) 1-2 APR (Rwanda) (0-4) Port Louis (Mauritius) vs Ngazi Sport (Comoros) (1-1) Deportivo Niefang (Equatorial Guinea) 1-0 New Stars (Cameroon) (1-2) CS la Mancha (Congo) vs Tanda (Cote d'Ivoire) (0-0) CR Belouizdad (Algeria) vs Onze Createurs (Mali) (1-1) Green Buffaloes (Zambia) 2-1 El Masry (Egypt) (0-4) Gendarmerie (Djibouti) vs Simba (Tanzania) (0-4) Wednesday, 21 February 2018 Jwaneng (Botswana) vs Costa do Sol (Mozambique) (0-1) FOSA Juniors (Madagascar) vs AFC Leopards (Kenya) (1-1) Maniema Union (DR Congo) vs Mangasport (Gabon) (1-0) Etoile Filante (Burkina Faso) vs Olympic Star (Burundi) (0-0) Hawks (Gambia) vs Akwa United (Nigeria) (2-1) Sahel (Niger) vs Al Ittihad (Libya) (0-1) CARA (Congo) vs Asante Kotoko (Ghana) (0-1) Mbour Petite Cote (Senegal) vs RS Berkane (Morocco) (1-2) FC Nouadhibou (Mauritania) vs Africa Sports (Cote d'Ivoire) (1-1) Wolaitta Dicha (Ethiopia) vs Zimamoto (Zanzibar) (1-1) 