South African based Ugandan socialite Zari Hassan "The Boss Lady", posted a black rose on social media on Valentine's Day Wednesday, with the message "sadly I have decided to end my relationship" with hubby Naseeb Abdul Juma "Diamond Platnumz". Here's the post: Understand that this is very difficult for me to do. There have been multiple rumors some with evidence floating around in ALL SORTS of media in regards to Diamond's constant cheating and sadly I have decided to end my relationship with Diamond, as my RESPECT, INTEGRITY, DIGNITY & WELL BEING cannot be compromised. We are separating as partners but not as parents. This doesn't reduce me as a self-made individual, and as a caring mother, and the boss lady you have all come to know. I will continue to build as a mogul, i will inspire the world of women to become boss ladies too. I will teach my four sons to always respect women, and teach my daughter what self-respect means. Unlike many, I've been in the entertainment industry for 12 years, and through all my challenges I came out a victor because I am a winner, and so are all of you Zari supporters. HAPPY VALENTINE'S Their star relationship has been on the rocks for a while, with Zari saying last month Tanzanian Diamond Platnumz was on probation. Diamond Platnumz won Zari from Ugandan tycoon Ivan Ssemwanga, who she had three children with. Ssemwanga died last year. Diamond Platnumz is yet to respond to Zari's post. Just last month, Zari had said she is working a mending her relationship for the sake of her two children. Speaking on Sanyu FM's Hit Selector Show on Saturday, Zari told show host Crystal Newman that she has discussed with Diamond Platnumz his extra-marital affair with video vixen Hamisa Mobetto, and she hoped to agree the best way forward. "It was betrayal at its best. It was the worst betrayal of all time," she said in December. "Well, he is on probation," Zari revealed. "Why cheat with some low life, why cheat from my bed, why not wear a condom?" Zari, shared her business fortunes in South Africa and family life on the radio show. She also narrated her struggles to overcome the death of her former husband Ivan Semwanga and her mom. Understand that this is very difficult for me to do. There have been multiple rumors some with evidence floating around in ALL SORTS of media in regards to Diamond's constant cheating and sadly I have decided to end my relationship with Diamond, as my RESPECT, INTEGRITY, DIGNITY & WELL BEING cannot be compromised. We are separating as partners but not as parents. This doesn't reduce me as a self-made individual, and as a caring mother, and the boss lady you have all come to know. I will continue to build as a mogul, i will inspire the world of women to become boss ladies too. I will teach my four sons to always respect women, and teach my daughter what self-respect means. Unlike many, I've been in the entertainment industry for 12 years, and through all my challenges I came out a victor because I am a winner, and so are all of you Zari supporters. HAPPY VALENTINE'S