The Second Ministerial Review Conference of African Union - Turkey Partnership Countries Tags: Turkey THE SECOND MINISTERIAL REVIEW CONFERENCE OF AFRICAN UNION- TURKEY PARTNERSHIP PRESS INFORMATION NOTE When: 12th February, 2018 Where: İstanbul, Turkey What: The Second Ministerial Review Conference of African Union - Turkey Partnership Background: The Second African Union-Turkey Ministerial Review Conference will take place on Monday 12 February 2018 in İstanbul. The Conference is co-organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey and the African Union Commission. The Second African Union-Turkey Ministerial Review Conference is being held four years after the Second African Union-Turkey Summit held in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea in November 2014. The Conference is also symbolic in the sense that, it coincides with the 10th Anniversary of the African Union Summit of 2008 in which Turkey was declared a strategic partner of the African Union. In that sense, the Ministers taking into account the importance of the anniversary will see how they can combine their efforts to further expand the African Union-Turkey Partnership at all levels and in all fields based on equality and mutual benefit. The Conference will be attended by a large number of African Union member states, including the representatives of Rwanda, Guinea, Egypt, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Libya, South Africa, Uganda, Madagascar, Ethiopia, Togo, Gabon and Chad, and representatives of the African Union Commission. Djibouti, Ivory Coast, Sudan, Somalia and Tanzania would be invited by Turkey as observers. Objectives: - Review the preparations for the Third African Union-Turkey Cooperation Summit which will take place in Istanbul, Turkey in 2019. - Review the progress achieved with regards to the partnership and discuss steps that can be taken in order to strengthen the cooperation between Africa and Turkey. Outputs: - Consolidated and streamlined partnership between Africa and Turkey that focuses on socio-economic development, equality and mutual benefit. Note to Editor: The African Union - Turkey relations were formalized in the 2008 Istanbul Summit, during which two outcome documents were adopted, namely the Istanbul Declaration and the Framework for Cooperation. The second African Union-Turkey Summit took place in November 2014 in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea. The Summit adopted the Malabo Declaration, the Africa-Turkey Joint Implementation Plan and the Matrix of the Key Priority Projects covering Trade and Investment, Peace and Security, Culture, Tourism and Education, Youth Empowerment and Technology Transfer, Rural Economy and Agriculture, Infrastructure: Energy, ICT and Transport as well as other topics such as health and media.