Malaika Nnyanzi is a fast rising radio and TV personality in Uganda with a growing audience. She co-hosts the morning show 'D mighty breakfast' with Brian Mulondo on KFM. She is also an MC for events and an actress who has featured in several films including the popular 'Beneath the lies'. Emceeing is another job she loves doing and her first gig was for the NEYO concert. One does not have to look too deep to find the source of her bubbling energy and passion, Nnyanzi will tell you matter-of-factly that she is motivated by the love of good things. And since good things cost money, she has no choice but to hustle. Her typical day starts as early as 3:45am to prepare for the breakfast show after which she proceeds to edit for Vodafone and this feeds into the evening gigs as MC closing the day at about midnight. But even with such a long day, Nnyanzi is happy to work. "I made a decision to sleep when I have earned it and until then, I work while I still can," says Nnyanzi. "My mother taught me to be a hardworking person". Nnyanzi is the only girl and last born of the two children of Mr. and Mrs Nnyanzi. She was born in Nairobi Kenya at a time when her father, a former army man was exiled. The family later relocated to Uganda; settling in the heart of the city before resettling in Kampala's suburb of Bugolobi. There, she went to Safari Kindergarten, Kampala Parents School, Gayaza High School and completed high school at Makerere College. She graduated with a Bachelor of Science in International Business at United States International University in Nairobi. In Nairobi, she says, she worked as a models manager doing productions for Swahili Fashion Week and Zambia Fashion Week among others across the region. She joined the media when she returned from Kenya after the six year sojourn. "When I returned to Uganda, my initial plan was not to stay for too long but return to Kenya and start something new," said Nnyanzi. "I was still thinking on my next move and discovering myself". As a person who never sits back but finds something to do, Nnyanzi's next move was to try out several other jobs; including marketing and managing models back in Kenya. Even when she had not done a media job before, Nnyanzi chose it over a corporate job just as something she had always loved to do. She started with Urban TV hosting 'Urban Today' and later 'Fashionista'. "The job rediscovered me and opened up my world," she says. But, as an admirer of top radio personalities, Nnyanzi equally loved radio which, she says, gives room for a private life unlike TV. It was not long before she started receiving invites for radio jobs and two years down the road, she called it quits with urban Television to take up her current position on KFM radio. Malaika Nnyazi's Liteside Any three things we don't know about you? I love dancing. People think I am very friendly and I am polite. I also like to keep to myself because I am a private person. What is your idea of perfect happiness? I love to be with my friends, dancing and watching movies. What is your greatest fear? Snakes and mediocrity scare me. What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? When someone upsets me, I shut off completely which is very unfair to the other person since it doesn't give them chance to explain or correct. What is the trait you most deplore in others? Negative people who always find the bad in everything and those who can't tolerate a different opinion. Which living person do you most admire? Beyonce and Bonang Matheba. I also respect Crystal Newman for she has shown everyone that you can be a lady, mother wife and media personality. And even with all that, she remains calm. What is your greatest extravagance? They say I love shoes too much but there is no such a thing. I just love shoes. What is the greatest thing you have ever done? Being the only one to interview and host NEYO in Uganda; it was also great being the first Ugandan to host the Namibian Annual Awards and Rockstar TV. What is your current state of mind? I am just a happy person. What does being powerful mean to you? My mother is the best definition of a powerful person. Power is being able to use the brick stones thrown at you to build a house. My mother uses those things to build and gets even better. What do you most dislike about your appearance? I have always been small but people make too much fuss about it. It made me somehow hate my body but of recent, I am learning to love myself. Which living person do you most despise? I am just so busy to start despising me. What or who is the greatest love of your life Without a doubt, it has to be my mother. She taught me every value in life. The love she has doesn't stop with us but spreads to others. When and where were you happiest When I got my radio job was a dream come true. The feedback was positive and there is nothing greater than loving and being loved back. Every step and stride I have made in my career has been a happy one for me. When I graduated with a first class degree, it was so amazing. When I returned to Uganda and still struggling, I requested to borrow my Mum's car only to be surprised with my own. That car means so much to me and I pledge never to sell it but pass it on to my children. Which talent would you most like to have? I wish I could sing. If you could change one thing about yourself, what would it be? I want to get bigger in size. What do you consider your greatest achievement? Everything I have achieved is great. If you were to die and come back as a person or a thing, what would it be? Everything about Beyonce. Where would you most like to live? I can live anywhere in Africa. What is your most treasured possession? My shoes. What do you regard as the lowest depth of misery? Burying your child is just too much. What is your favorite occupation? I never pick from my children because all of them feed into each other. However, radio is my training ground. What do you most value in your friends? Their ability to understand me; they love me for who I am, support each other and be there at all times. Who are your favorite writers? I am trying to learn how to read because I listen more. Which historical figure do you most identify with? I can't think of anyone. Who is your hero of fiction? I love Natalie Portman; she is able to capture an emotion, falls and fits into any character and has a high level of passion. I love and follow her for that. I also love Bonang of South Africa. Who are your real life heroes? That has to be my mother What is your greatest regret? I know God does everything in His time but I believe that I delayed God's plan for me. I think the if had I stayed in our company, a year longer and may be things wouldn't have turned out the way they did How would you like to die? I don't want to go past the age of 60 years unless I am able bodied. But I also want to go when Africa is the dream destination. What is your motto? I was born to be great, it's not an aspiration, is my destiny.