Effective leadership displayed by both the Plateau State State Government and the security tasked force led by the Army unit in the state has restored peace back to the once fragile state, says a group. The group, under the aegis of Global peace and life rescue initiative (GOPRI), which hailed the Army and the Plateau State Government for the feat said the development was responsible for the exemption of the state from the ongoing Army's Operation Ayem Akpatuma, declared in Benue, Taraba and the other four states of the federation. The Non Governmental Organization, in a statement by its Executive Director, Amb. Melvin Ejeh, commended the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, for listening to the cry of the people by in launching the special military operation code name "Ayem Akpatuma" which it interpreted to mean Operation Cat Race. According to the group , Buratai's action was a perfect response to ceaseless clashes in Benue, kogi, Nasarawa, Niger, Kaduna and Taraba states between farmers and herdsmen which it regretted had resulted to deaths of many people and destruction of property worth several billions of naira. It expressed happiness that the operations would once and for all, address incessant cases of kidnapping, cattle rustling and other forms of criminilatites in the affected states. "We are optimistic that this action taken by the Chief of Army Staff will mark the end or reduce criminality in these affected states, "it said. The group also lauded Buratai for the timely operation and urge the people of the affected states to cooperate maximumly with the troops in the exercise of their constitutional mandate while in the state to guarantee the needed results. It also commended the plateau state Governor, Barr. Simon Lalong, Commander of Operation Safe Haven, OPSH, Major General Anthony Atolagbe and other security agencies for the peace that it noted, was currently being enjoyed on the Plateau. "This is obviously why plateau State was exonerated from this operation. In recent time, we saw major lost of lives and properties between farmers/ herdsmen in Miango, Bassa and Bokkos local government areas of Plateau State but the situation was professionally managed due to the efforts of Operation Safe Haven and other security agencies supported by the state government. "This is the kind of response and proactiveness we want to see by the security agencies and government at all levels. "Security of lives and properties must be priorities, "the statement said . The statement added:" While commending specially officers and men of Operation Safe Haven, OPSH for it's special deployments and operational strategies which is yielding uncommon results across the state and it's environs, we urge them to clamp down on drugs dealers and users as this remains the bane of security in the state. "