Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has urged Nigerians, especially wealthy individuals, government and corporations to support youths and institutions that trains people interested in music in order to develop the sector. According to him, music has the potential to boost academic performance, keep the youth engaged and motivate them for success in life. Speaking at an event tagged: 'A musical evening with Akintola Williams,; organised by the Akintola Williams Foundation at the Muson Centre, Lagos, he said irrespective of the genre of music, institutions and authorities should create an enabling environment for its development through moral and financial support. "We should promote music generally, whether it is classical, highlife or Africa music. Music is something that is good for our society, especially the young ones that are still looking for job. This is another way to keep them engaged and motivated," he said. The governor, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Tolu Odebiyi, commended the organisers for putting up such unique musical performance for someone he described as a national icon and the doyen of accountancy in Nigeria. Speaking with The Guardian, the chairman, Board of Trustees of the Akintola Williams Foundation, Mrs. Olutoyin Olakunri, said it is an evening to honour the elders and someone who has impacted much in the lives of millions of Nigerians. She disclosed that the foundation has been providing scholarships for the music school in honour of Mr. Akintola Williams. "I ask Mr. Akintola Williams every time, what do you want us to do this year? And he says: 'to help the musical school through financial support.' The musical school are playing for us for free," she said. Audience at the live musical performances were treated to the best of classical music rendered by MUSON Diploma School Orchestra featuring 'incidental music', 'concerto in G major', Flower Duet from Lakme, Trumpet concerto, Opera scenes, Sisi8, Medium cool, prelude in C sharp minor, among others.