Khartoum — A UN senior official who concluded a sever day visit to the Sudan has expressed satisfaction over the outcome of the visit, consultations with six ministers and state ministers, as well as the field visits to North and West Darfur states, beside lengthy meetings with civil society organizations and NGOs. The Assistant Secretary General for Sexual Violence in Conflict Areas, -Pramila Patten on Sunday briefed the Minister for Social Welfare, Mahaair Al Dawalab, on the outcome of her visit and the well-organized programme prepared and implemented. She said her meetings in Darfur were excellent and expressed her hope to boost the contact and follow up and cooperation with the Sudan with the view to put in place a road map. She said she will submit her report to the UN Security Council Committee and would explain the outcome and results of her visit to the Sudan. She commended the progress made in legislations relative to women but stressed there was still more to be done for upgrading these legislations and implementation of these laws in the Sudan. The Minister has meanwhile commended the statement made by the visiting UN officials who is responsible about sexual violence in conflict areas after her visit to Darfur region of Western Sudan. The Minister pointed to the stability and security enjoyed by Darfur as clearly stated by UN delegations visiting the region. She referred to the voluntary return of refugees and displaced people to their home areas in Darfur. She said efforts would continue to achieve more peace and stability and that the return of internally displaced persons to their home areas, would be one of the most effective ways to end any expected violence against civilians. She said the ongoing efforts now seek to instill peace, curb crime, and apply laws against chaos. She said the government of Sudan does not tolerate any violence of that type and that it has the political will to implement this resolve. She also assured the visiting UN official that the Sudan would provide the tools and legislations as well as the institutions for the remedy of any gaps.