Former Soroti Municipality Member of Parliament, Capt. Mike Mukula has said he is returning to the music industry to reorganize musicians. Speaking at his Bugolobi residence, Mr Mukula said as a person who transformed the local music industry by bringing foreign musicians to inspired local artistes, he feels it is time to organize them to manage their fame and how they conduct themselves in public. "I have been working behind the scenes to promote the late Radio, Weasel and the Goodlyfe crew but I am sorry that because of my busy schedules in my business, I have not been so close to them for the last six month," he said. He said he would all upcoming musicians this week because the entertainment industry is a major growing industry which will continue expanding. "Talent is God given and they (musicians) must pass the correct message to young people to inspire them. They should not just pass sexual messages but educative messages; those that encourage young people to work hard," he said adding that young people should avoid indulging in corrosive behaviour like indulging in alcohol and drugs. Asked what makes him think he revolutionized Uganda's Music industry, Mr Mukula who was parading his nephew, David Ebangit Washington, the last person seen with the deceased singer Mowzey Radio in Entebbe, for media interviews said in the 1990s, he was the first to fly into the country international musicians like Yvonne Chaka Chaka and famous Congolese musicians who inspired local artistes like Juliana Kanyomozi, Irene Namubiru among others. He said local artistes need to learn things like financial discipline by hiring managers, accountants, brand managers and other essential professionals to manage their brands because they are celebrities with a following in society whose image should be protected. Washington said he is the principal witness of all events that happened before Mowzey's death and that he has been behind the scenes helping police with the arrest of the prime suspect, Godfrey Wamala alias Troy.