Onitsha — A Nigerian-born China-based actor and model, Mr. James Ifeanyi Ogbobe, has called on wealthy and privileged Nigerians to shower love on the less privileged ones in the country, particularly children at motherless babies homes. Speaking when he hosted about 250 children in his country home in Alor-Uno, Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, Ogbobe lamented that a lot of wealthy and privileged Nigerians are indifferent to the plight of less privileged children in the country. The actor and model who also visited the National Council for Women Society, NCWS Motherless Babies Home in Onuiyi, Nsukka, said the prayer of children which helped him to secure Chinese visa for his trip in 2009 motivated his interest in helping them. He said before he travelled to China, he had challenges getting visa, but one day, he went to a Motherless Babies Home in Lagos and asked them to pray for him so that he could get Chinese visa, which they did. Ogbobe stated that after the prayers, he was issued with Chinese visa, which enabled him to travel, adding that he realised that helping children, especially the motherless and less privileged ones, was more potent than going to herbalists who will prepare charm for you to get money. "I have found out that charity work for less privileged children will make me realise my ambition. Showing love to the children is a far more potent force than going to all these spiritualists, who will help you succeed but will tell you that you will live for 20 years only, as the case may be. On February 8, 2018, I hosted 250 kids in my house, where I feted and gave them presents to put smiles on their faces during the New Year," he said. He assured that as long as God helps him, the gesture will be a continuous process and advised people to take to charity because wealth is not actually the amount of money one has in his/her bank account but the lives one has touched or affected positively. "Whatever you have, use it to show love, to put smiles on the faces of people. Visit the physically and mentally challenged homes, old people's homes, Motherless Babies homes with whatever you have. What they need is love and we can give them love," said the actor. Presenting the items, which included bags of indomie noodles, tissue papers, pampers, semovita etc., Ogbobe challenged the staff to see the children as their own by treating them as such. The matron of the home, uche ugwuanyi, thanked ogbobe for remembering to put smiles on their faces, praying that god will replenish him. She assured that they, the staff, would continue to put in their best to ensure that the children kept under their care were well taken care of.