Film producer Nevil Sandama will be holding auditions tomorrow at Theatre in the Park for aspiring actors who come from disadvantaged backgrounds. The auditions are set to scout for actors who will feature on an upcoming television reality show called "Unleash the Talent Africa". "The purpose of the auditions is to look for unknown talented actors and actresses who come from poor families and cannot afford to enroll with film schools because of financial challenges. We shall train them in everything concerning the field," he said. The multiple award-winning producer said he was passionate about assisting disadvantaged talented people to realise their dreams. "I was a school drop-out because of financial constraints but then relocated to South Africa in search of green pastures. Life was not easy. I used to sleep in the streets and under bridges till I met a church television crew and that was the beginning of my journey," Sandama reminisces. The upcoming television show will be screened on ZTV and will have 13 episodes. "Basically each episode will show the background of the actor, films they have featured and the process of grooming we have done on them. Soon after auditions the selected actors will start working on short films," said Sandama. The auditions will also be graced by musicians Gary Tight and Nesto. In terms of actors there will be Kessia Masona aka Muchaneta, Boss T1 of Wenera amongst others. Sandama represented the country and lifted its flag high on a number of occasions with his film productions like "The Scapegoat" and "Five Minutes Till Noon". Last year he partnered with domestic workers in Mandara and produced a movie called "A Walk to Remember" which was a success. His first film in 2012 "Ibalaclava" which went on to win best fiction film at Jozi Film Festival. In 2013 he started 'unleash the talent' project where he trained guys from community with poor backgrounds but with passion for filming including how to produce, direct ,act and write films and it was a success in Cape Town.