The annual Wine Art Food Festival is an exciting event that seeks to fuse SA's best wine, arts and cuisine in a spectacular environment for one, glorious day. The festival aims to celebrate our rich heritage and culture by bringing people of various backgrounds together to indulge in the finer things in life. 'I really wish I was going to the festival as a guest and not the host this year. That's how much fun it's going to be!', says event founder, Thabo Nkadimeng. The festival will comprise of three main elements namely - Wine tasting and classes, gourmet food stalls and art exhibitions and classes and will cater to the whole family. WINE The festival will host an array of wine farms for the day and exhibitors will be invited from across the country keeping all the products proudly South African. All wineries will offer unlimited tastings to festival goers and also engage with them about their products and how they can be accessed outside of the event. The wine stalls will be set up around the venue and encourage festival goers to explore and experience the picturesque venue, Freedom Park. FOOD A selection of niche eateries from across the province (mostly Pretoria and Johannesburg) will be on offer on the day to entice the festival-goers taste buds. This will be an amazing platform for these emerging eateries to showcase their brands and food to a new and hungry audience. The chosen eateries will have been selected based on the ethnicity of their dishes. We aim to only bring proudly South African dishes, thus enhancing the cultural experience for the festival goers. This year for the first time, the festival will be offering a MCC Masterclass run by our featured chefs - foodies are encouraged to come hungry and ready to learn a recipe or two on the day. The masterclass will include a light three course tasting menu to pair with three selected MCC's for the day. ART For the more arty attendees, local artists will be handpicked from around the province to create their signature art live on the day to showcase their talent and artworks. The festival will also have various local artists and photographers come showcase their work within various segments of the park. This year, the festival will offer a simple but fun 2-hour Art class on the basics of painting 101 - the class will be facilitated by one of the professionals for the day, with the aim to teach festival-goers how to get the basics of art right, and they get to keep their portraits at the end of the day. Pretoria's top celebration of Wine, Art, Food & Heritage returns to Freedom Park! Book your tickets now at www.waff.co.za and enjoy wine tastings, classes & pairings, Art exhibitions & classes and more. ALL THE DEETS: Date: 5 May 2018 Venue: Freedom Park Pretoria Time: 10:00 - 18:00 Tickets: R100 early bird tickets till sold out; R200 at the door. ( Get your tickets here !) Channel24 is a media partner for #WAFF2018. Source: Channel24