Concerned about the lingering fuel scarcity across the country, the House of Representatives has advised the federal government to build more refineries that can produce sufficient products to meet the demands. This is as it also called on the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to make available enough products to clear long queues at filling stations in the interim. The call was made by the chairman of the House of Representatives committee on petroleum resources (downstream), Hon. Joseph Akinlaja at the weekend in Abuja while speaking with newsmen. Akinlaja, who lamented the hardship Nigerians have had to endure since the end of last year, posited that the only permanent solution to the constant scarcity of petroleum products is for the government to put the existing refineries in shape and build additional ones to increase the quantity of products in the country. "The solution to this is for government to build more refineries that will produce enough products; and at the same time, we have to make the four refineries to work at optimum level", he said. According to him, the major cause of the current shortage is as a result of supply challenges adding that there was no problem with the distribution as according to him, tanker drivers are always ready to work. "One thing I know after about forty years in the industry is that for the queues to disappear there must be abundant supply of the product because you cannot control the size of the product demand. If there is going to be saboteurs or mischief makers, insufficient supply is going to be the basis of that. "I have always said it from my knowledge of the industry that supply is the issue. Why is supply an issue? In the downstream sector, they are critical stakeholders in the supply and distribution chain, Akinlaja stated". Speaking further, the lawmaker averred that the NNPC alone cannot meet up the petroleum demands in the country unless other stakeholders are also involved in the importation of products. He said presently, only the NNPC is importing fuel insisting that the corporation cannot cope with the demand from consumers. "Today we don't have problem with distribution, we only have problem with supply. Who are those in charge of supply? It is NNPC, IPMAN, DAPMAN and MOMAN- these are critical in the supply sector. Those critical in the distribution sector are tanker owners and tanker drivers. "As of today, we have sufficient tankers in Nigeria, to move products from wherever there are; and we have willing tanker drivers ready to drive to anywhere in the country- that's why I said we do not have any problem with the stakeholders in the distribution sector", he explained. On the Dangote Refinery that is expected to take off next year, Akinlaja said going by the capacity of the refinery, it will help in resolving issues of fuel shortage but that would depend on the provision of an enabling environment by the government. "It is true the government is relying on the Dangote refinery that is due to come on stream in 2019. I would say if the capacity of the refinery is to be considered it will be of immense help in solving our petroleum product's needs. But government must provide an enabling environment for it to succeed. "I am saying this because, Dangote may not be responsible for laying of pipelines, but if there are pipelines, the products can be pumped from one part of the country to another", he stated. The chairman further explained that the National Assembly is not in a position to say when queues will disappear given that it depends on the information passed to them by the NNPC and minister of petroleum resources. "Well, the legislators promise can only be premised on the minister of petroleum resources. If the minister says the fuel queues will disappear in a week, we will tell the people, the minister said it will disappear in a week. We are not the ones importing fuel or managing the refineries".