Certainly, the mood right now is all about St. Valentine's Day, with lovers gearing up to get creative in the way they express their love to their partners. The general idea is that the day is special and hardly can anything go wrong. How wrong?. This compilation of St. Valentine's experiences tell the gritty side of the day, as our screen goddesses share their sweet and sour Valentine stories. By now, just about everyone knows that singer and actress, Adokiye Kyrian is a virgin, and according to her, she still is. However, one may be tempted to ask how a virgin celebrates St. Valentine's Day, a day, lovers are expected to light the candle of their love and share it in the most intimate ways. For the 'Selense' crooner, there's a Valentine's Day she would never forget. It was actually the last Valentine's Day and she thought she had found the right man that fit the picture in her dreams. Hear her: "Last year I thought I had made up my mind to have a boyfriend. We met in December, got talking through to January, we got along and I presumed he was everything I needed in a man or better still, a boyfriend. I had explained to him my conditions of dating, that there will be no sex till marriage, he obliged and told me for my love, he would wait on anything and at any length, that he didn't care about sex also. I made him understand that it's not as if I don't care about sex or won't love it but I really don't want to jinx what we have, and he gave in and kissed my forehead. As my boyfriend whom I thought understood me already and I was most comfortable with him and learning to know him, he told me we would spend some romantic time on February 14, the Valentine's Day, I told him why not. The day came, he picked me up from my place to a fantastic 5-Star Hotel. I mentioned this was too expensive knowing how unstable the country's economy was, but he said in his words, "Baby, I am ready to steal and die for you. You deserve every good thing in life". As a woman who loves the good life and hearing a man say these sweet things, I smiled romantically. We went up to his room, barely an hour of rest and sweet talks, my lovely boyfriend told me he had to have sex with me that day or he would know I don't even love him as I preached to him. I was dumbfounded and didn't know what to say to him. I was just looking at him because he kept pressuring and insisting. I angrily told him I don't care how he thinks and feels and made it clear we were not having sex and that would be it. To my greatest surprise. My lovely boyfriend shocked the hell out of me. He said "Adokiye this is where it ends for the both of us, you will have to leave this room now because I am calling a girl who is willing to give me good sex and you can't stay here with us, unless of course, you want to join us in a threesome, and that makes it even sweeter". I have never been so confused before. A guy I thought I was going to get married to, he disappointed me so hugely. Quickly, I brought out my phone and requested a ride and barely five minutes, the car came and I told him not to call my number again and I left," she recounted. Recall that in an interview with Potpourri some three years ago when she was 23, the crooner revealed that she was a virgin, much to the bewilderment of many, and frankly stated that she would only give it away to the man who could buy her mum a jet plane. Three years on, it appears no man is willing to take the challenge. "That was my experience," she added. " It wasn't romantic at all. I have not seen any romantic Valentine before. I thought I had one but it slipped away again. So, I made up my mind that maybe dating is not for me, maybe I just have to keep making money till I am ready for marriage, since no one is willing to wait on marriage before sex," she said.