High flying musician Mukudzei Mukombe aka Jah Prayzah is dominating upcoming National Merit Awards with nominations in three categories. Running in its 17th edition, the event will take place on February 17 at Reps Theatre in Belgravia. The most contentious battle is between undeniably man of the moment Jah Prayzah and urban grooves musician Trevor Dongo who clash in the Outstanding Male Musician category together with X-Q. The two also lock horns in Outstanding Album category with their respective albums "Kutonga Kwaro" and "Beyond". The "Kutonga Kwaro" hit-maker has also been nominated in the Outstanding Song of the Year category for the song "Ndini Ndamubata", where it is competing with Ammara Brown's "Akiliz" and "Pamamonya Ipapo" by Soul Jah Love. Ammara is also competing with gospel artist Janet Manyowa and Selmor Mtukudzi in the Outstanding Female Musician category. Visually-impaired actress Edith Masango has been nominated in the Outstanding Actress under Theatre category for her role in "Narratives from the Dark" and is battling with Charlene Mangweni in "The Incident" and "Nomvuyiso Mabi" in Double Funeral According to Nama chairperson Professor Ruby Magosvongwe the adjudicators bemoaned lack of creativity in the quality and quantity of work submitted to them under dance, film and music. "Most submissions of music videos lack imagination and creativity. Many artists do not invest in hiring producers as they prefer to produce and direct the filming of the video by themselves. This compromised the quality of the submitted film product. "Most traditional dance practitioners are not creating new works that are evident of innovation and creativity," she said. Below is the full list of the nominees 1. SPOKEN WORD AWARDS Outstanding Poet Tinashe Tafirenyika Shingirai Manyengavana Mercy Dhliwayo Special Mention Takesure Taringana Outstanding Comedian Tinaye Chiketa Samantha Kureya aka Gonyeti Mandlenkosi Mathe aka D Comedian 2. LITERARY ARTS AWARDS Outstanding First Creative Published Works Blooming Lilies by Dean Murinda [Pen Featherz Media] Nei? By Lazarus Sauti [Royalty Books] Ndofa Ndisina Mwana by Jesca Rushwaya-Marwiro [ZPH] Outstanding Children's Book Paradise Stories by Eve Nyemba-Mazando Nomvundla and the Chilli Eating Contest by Fortune Tazvivinga The Magician by Aleck Kaposa[Essential Books] Outstanding Fiction Moving On by Jane Morris (editor) [AmaBooks] Survivors Café by Stanley Mushava [Underclass Books & Films] Live Like an Artist by David Mungoshi [Bhabhu Books] Special Mention Tsvura Ngoko by Ishmail Penyai 3. THEATRE AWARDS Outstanding Actor Gift Chakuvinga in Double Funeral Leonard Phiri in Ihloka Julian Tshuma in Double Funeral Outstanding Actress Charlene Mangweni in The Incident Nomvuyiso Mabi in Double Funeral Edith Masango in Narratives from the Dark Outstanding Theatrical Production The Incident directed by Elizabeth 'Zaza' Muchemwa Double Funeral directed by Thulani Mbambo Ihloka directed by Matesu Dube Outstanding Director Zaza Muchemwa for The Incident Thulani Mbambo for Double Funeral Matesu Dube for Ihloka 4. DANCE AWARDS Outstanding Female Dancer Ndomupeishe Chipendo in Kutamba Zve Melany Carruthers in Southern Soul Yeukai Zinyoro in Variety Outstanding Male Dancer McIntosh Jerahuni in Fullstop Malcom E. Chirove in LA Puissance Sean Mambwere in Online Outstanding Dance Group Afro Dance Breakthrough Productions M & M Dance Factory Special Mention Ezimnyama Dance Ensemble Outstanding Choreographer Sean Mambwere -- Online Melany Carruthers -- Southern Soul Malcom E. Chirove -- LA Puissance 5. VISUAL ARTS AWARDS Outstanding 2 Dimensional Work Twisted Yoke Ropes by Webster Mubayirenyi Iwe Neni Tine Basa by Calvin Chimutuwah AU Logo Design by Quentine Nyoni Outstanding 3 Dimensional Work Dudu Manhenga by Josiah Chigondora Loving Memories by Gift Chimufombo Proud of my Hair by David White Outstanding Mix Media Work Recurring Success by Munyaradzi Mazarire Madam Vebvoda Foni by Evans T. Mutenga Camel and Friends (Zizi) by Johnson Zuze Outstanding Exhibition Dis(colour)ed Margins by Thandazani Dhlakama & Fadzai Muchemwa at NGZ Colour Revolution by Gary Thompson at The 'A' Gallery From Line to Form by Helen Lieros at Delta Gallery 6. FILM AND TELEVISION AWARDS Outstanding Actress Kudzai Msungo in Muzita Rababa Gamuchirai Dube in Kushata Kwemoyo Nothando Nobengula in Like a Good Woman Should Outstanding Actor Eddingtone Hatitongwe in Muchaneta Charles Muzemba in Kushata Kwemoyo Zolile Makeleni in Wenera Outstanding Music Video Ndinokakama produced by Naxo Films ft.Dereck Mpofu Bhero produced by Studio Art Pictures ft. Shadrick Kwarire Over Again produced by Vimbai Mukarati ft. Vimbai Mukarati Outstanding Screen Production (Television) Muchaneta directed by Eddingtone Hatitongwe Wenera directed by Zolile Makeleni Muzita Rababa directed by Shem Zemura Outstanding Screen Production - Short Film Ruvimbo's Wedding directed by Ben Mahaka Things We Do for Love directed by Derby Bheta Baba the Joys of Fatherhood directed by Ignatious Matope Outstanding Screen Production Full Length Film Like a Good Woman Should directed by Gilbert Mupiwa Kushata Kwemoyo directed by Shem Zemura One Woman and Her Mbira directed by Hope Masike 7. MEDIA AWARDS Outstanding Journalist - Radio Nicola Ndoro - Star FM Lastword Musekiwa - Star FM Patience Musa -ZiFM Special Mention Babongile Sikhonjwa - Skyz FM Outstanding Journalist - Print Vasco Chaya -Daily News Prince Mushawevato-Sunday Mail Stanley Mushava -Herald Outstanding Journalist - TV Regis Mhako -ZBC Andrew Neshamba -ZBC Sifiso Mpofu -ZBC Outstanding Online Media Bustop TV Jera Black Toe TV 8. MUSIC AWARDS Outstanding Male Musician Enock Munhenga aka XQ Trevor Dongo Mukudzei Mukombe aka Jah Prayzah Outstanding Female Musician Ammara Brown Janet Manyowa Selmor Mtukudzi Outstanding Album Inhliziyo by Caleb Msipa Beyond by Trevor Dongo Kutonga Kwaro by Mukudzei Mukombe aka Jah Prayzah Outstanding Song Pamamonya Ipapo by Soul Musaka aka Soul Jah Love Ndini Ndamubata by Mukudzei Mukombe aka Jah Prayzah Akiliz by Ammara Brown 9. SPECIAL AWARDS Outstanding Promoter X-MO Squad 2 Kings Entertainment Divine Assignment