The community of entrepreneurs and early supporters of the McFly.aero blockchain project have begun to set up an infrastructure for flying cars; in 23 cities covering 13 countries, including in Kenya. In these cities, the McFly community is introducing a technological package for the implementation of the air taxi infrastructure; developed by the Blockchain.aero consortium. Community ambassadors of McFly have been as crucial in this effort as the McFly team itself. "People in large cities are tired of traffic; they will be happy to have affordable private flights. We have developed a three-phase program to create an infrastructure for flying cars," the McFly.aero Lead Community Manager, Nik Bezhko explains. "At each stage, a local community member carries out assignments and receives McFly tokens as a management fee. The number of people joining our project from different countries is very pleasing. We're building a decentralized community. Together, we'll create an accessible flight technology for the urban population." The rest of the countries include: US (Los Angeles, San Francisco, Pittsburgh) France (Paris), Ukraine (Kiev, Dnepr, Znamenovka), Belarus (Minsk, Vitebsk), Russia (Moscow, Tarusa), India (Srikakulam, Surat), as well as in capitals and big cities of Australia, Japan, Nigeria, Panama, Spain, Mexico, Indonesia, and mountains of Nepal. Flying taxis are closer than you think Today, it is no longer a matter of producing flying cars, but more of a focus on setting up an infrastructure for the efficient use of flying taxis: selecting landing sites, equipping charging points, organizing maintenance services, and developing blockchain solutions for flight requests on demand. For those wishing to be a part of the next disruption in travel, there is a promising path. Become a leader of a local chapter, engage in business development, or serve as a technical expert. Propose your solutions for blockchain technologies and mobile applications. One of the critical tasks for each chapter will be finding suitable roofs for flying car parking. Uber, which announced the launch of its flying taxi project in April of 2017; is rumored to be buying roofs in large cities. However, Uber does not plan to develop their own flying machines; but desires to focus efforts towards building an internet platform for the flying machines usage in a similar way to the automotive market. On the contrary, members of the McFly community will obtain technologies developed by the Blockchain.aero consortium, which you will be able to use in your city -- flying cars, equipment for charging points, and other "hardware", as well as software (blockchain, smart contracts, and applications are some of examples). The Blockchain.aero consortium includes nine technology companies: d Hepard (flying cars manufacturers) Universa.io (blockchain protocol developer), Farad.Energy (batteries and charging points manufacturer), CreativeRussia.co (urban public transport systems integrations design) Emercoin (digital currency and blockchain platform), TFT (pilot training simulators developer), Drone Employee (smart contracts for air taxi system), and Afrus (interiors for flying machines).