ZIMBABWEANS and South Africans based in Europe will have an opportunity to sample the new offerings by some of the two countries leading musical acts at this year's Southern Africa Music and Arts Festival (SAMAFest). The calendar event will be held in London on March 30 before moving to Coventry on March 31. Winky D, fresh from launching his latest studio album Gombwe, and Oliver Mtukudzi who dropped his 66th album Hany'ga (Concern), are set to feature at the festival. South African group Mafikizolo who are also currently enjoying a lot of airplay with their latest hot single Ofana Lawe, which features Nigerian songstress Yemi Alade, will also grace the festival. Andy Muridzo and Sam Dondo will also make an appearance. Apart from unveiling this year's lineup, the organisers, Y2K Entertainment also announced a new partnership with Impala Car Rentals and Mukuru.com. Impala Car Rentals are the principal sponsors of this year's edition of SAMAFest. "The team has have been working hard to ensure that this year we deliver beyond the expectations of our patrons who are the reason we do this. We have had unforeseen problems in the past due to overwhelming over subscribing at the events," the organisers said in a statement. "We have now managed to look for a better and bigger venue like the SkyDome Arena in Coventry. The London venue has been refurbished. "We are thankful for the support we have received not just from the corporate world but also from the fans and artists themselves who are excited about 2018 as the response gauged by the advance online ticket sales as well as actual enquiries is very encouraging." Impala car rentals brand and projects manager, Tracy Ngoma, said the event has provided them with the perfect opportunity to make their contribution towards growing the local music industry. "We believe music is the one thing that brings people together despite the different languages they may speak," said Ngoma. "Our business at Impala is not limited by region or nationality, it therefore made sense for us to partner with Y2k as Impala is looking to spread like music and reach everyone no matter where they are in the world." Mika Stuttaford the Head of Digital at Mukuru.com added: "We hope to get involved in more initiatives such as SAMA Fest to promote our artists as we strongly believe in securing top talent and mentoring upcoming artists. "We are also growing our money transfer market in UK to Zimbabwe and South Africa, SAMAFest patrons will have the opportunity to meet the Mukuru team at the events." Y2K has experienced growth in the UK where SAMAFest has been running since 2009. The event has seen premium acts such as Jah Prayzah, Winky D, Oliver and Selmor Mtukudzi, Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave, as well as Shingai Shoniwa and The Noisettes light up the stage for Zimbabweans in the UK as well as other nationalities with a keen interest in Zimbabwean and African music.