Reeling from the scandal of widely inflated beneficiary numbers in Uganda, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) today said that effective March 1 it is introducing biometric verification of refugees as part of steps to regain donor confidence. "The intent is to clarify that the numbers [in the government] data base are accurate, the donors need assurance that these matters have been dealt with, and if they don't receive those assurances, they may withhold funding," Teresa Ongaro, the UNHCR senior regional spokesperson, told journalists at the agency's Kampala office. She said that a number of donors have expressed concerns about reports of inflated refugee figures. The threat to withdraw assistance to the huge refugee assistance operation in Uganda follows reports of fraud in the Office of the Prime Minster (OPM), the Ugandan government department, which deals with humanitarian issues. Early this month, UNHCR and the European Union (EU) called for an investigation into alleged falsification of refugee numbers, misuse of funds meant for the refugees by officials at OPM and suspected trafficking of some female refugees. "We have received from the donors an indication that, until we are able to verify the numbers, they will withhold funding," Ongaro said. Until the scandal broke, Uganda was being lauded for its progressive policies and generous hosting of more than 1.5 million refugees mainly from South Sudan, Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi and Somalia, according to UNHCR. There are also immigrants from Eritrea, Ethiopia and Rwanda. But those huge figures are now in doubt after it emerged that officials were padding records to scam donors. "The donors are raising those concerns because the numbers determine the level of support required for refugees. There is a concern that the numbers are not accurate... then donors become reluctant to support," Ongaro said. Late in January, the refugee agency conducted a verification exercise in Kampala where 26,000 refugees had been reported to be receiving support. When the refugees were invited to physically turn up, only about 7,000 people showed up, raising suspicion that the 19,000 were 'ghosts' whose would-be provisions were being pocketed by officials at OPM. "Dishonest or fraudulent conduct by those involved in the refugee response causes great harm to the people we care for and erodes public confidence and donor trust. It also does serious disservice to Uganda's exemplary refugee policies," she added. She, however, refuted reports that UNHCR's country representative Bornwell Kantande had been recalled. Ongaro said that the agency's inspector general's office had taken up investigations "on some serious allegations" that were received at the end of 2017. These investigations are not particularly against Kantande, Ongaro said. "We have zero tolerance for fraud and corruption, misconduct, and sexual abuse and exploitation. Every allegation is thoroughly assessed, and, if substantiated, leads to sanctions against the concerned staff member, including summary dismissal," she said. Ongaro declined to comment on the alleged involvement of Ugandan officials in the scam but rather said that they have asked government to investigate the allegations. So far, four officials at OPM: Apollo Kazungu (commissioner refugees), Walter Omondi (refugee desk officer in Mbarara), John Baptist Sentamu, and Francis Nkwasibwe were reportedly interdicted two weeks ago. But Kazungu has denied any wrong doing in an interview with The Observer. "I have a team that deals with the data management, but you can have rotten apples in the pile. If that is the case, we need to identify who is responsible for what, but you don't just put the blame on me. UNHCR has been advised to register afresh and we compare with the data that we have. In case of errors, then we can say there is something wrong," Kazungu said. He called for an audit before any conclusions can be drawn. "There is no money Kazungu could have gone ahead to appropriate or open an account for. The said money has not yet been appropriated; how could it be that it has been misappropriated?" he wondered. He said the money in question was raised during the solidarity summit where government of Uganda and development partners pledged money for refugees. "When this money was realised almost 95 per cent of it went to the UN agencies including UNHCR, IOM, World Food Programme... About $ 1.5m [Shs 54bn] was allocated to OPM; this money is meant to be appropriated for use after the comprehensive Refugee Framework steering committee sits. This committee is composed of the government of Uganda, development partners, civil society and the refugees," Kazungu said.