In Uganda, the government simply shuts down a media house for weeks, months, even a year. The Red Pepper, a most recent victim, reopened a week ago after the government shut it for two months. All it takes is for the police to declare the premises of a media house a scene of crime. In a perverse way, we in Uganda are used to this high-handed behaviour. Kenyan media, even under the "bad" days of president Daniel arap Moi, never quite experienced the Uganda treatment. Well, until Mr Moi left and democracy returned. What democracy! It came bearing bitter pills. On Thursday afternoon, the courts ordered the government in Nairobi to open the country's top three TV stations it switched off on Tuesday. It sought to prevent the coverage of the swearing-in of losing presidential candidate Raila Odinga as the "People's President". When word went around that the TV stations would be switched off if they planned to provide coverage, Mr Odinga apparently quipped that Kenya was descending to the level of Uganda. Mr Odinga's antipathy toward Uganda aside, the man was right. It is not yet uhuru on both sides of the border. But what is the larger thing we learn from president Uhuru Kenyatta's outrageous act? It is possibly that our governments, whatever democratic stripes they assign themselves, lash out when cornered. They have thin skins for big-time stress. It is a backhanded compliment to journalism that these governments target the media. We won't even bring up the shining example of a Mr Donald Trump. You would think that declining audiences as a result of disrupted business models, thanks to the digital rise, would be headache enough for media owners and managers. That is not the thinking of powerfully mean men in Kampala and Nairobi. From one type of mourning to another: the passing of the redoubtable South African musician Hugh Masekela. Growing up, Hugh and his music seeped slowly into the consciousness. The man. The music. They were always there. Kind of fused and always legendary. One evening six years ago, a friend said we should check out +233 Jazz Bar & Grill in Accra. It was a Sunday. As a throw away, he said: you never know, Hugh Masekela may just be in the house. He is spending extended time in Accra and likes to drop in and jam. Whether the food was great, I didn't want to know. Whether the resident band was great, I didn't want to know. Whether the beer was chilled right, that was no longer an issue. I had to be in the great man's presence in an informal setting. We sat outside, the humid Accra air harassing me. The band was playing inside. A sleek BMW Convertible swept in right to the entrance at about 7:30pm. There was a hush. Heads turned. The man was in the house. He was smiling. People lined up to take pictures with him, shake his hand. He may have signed an autograph or two. I watched it all from my chair. Charisma was on display. But where was the trumpet? Some more backslapping, a hello to the musicians inside the room, and he was off. Damn! Yes, he came. On this Sunday, however, he was not going to blow his horn. I had seen him in concert in Kampala. Seeing him jam in a funky little place far away would have been a worthwhile experience. Go well, Hugh Ramapolo Masekela. You are mortal. Your music stays. Besides, you can always blow that instrument from over there. If the South African bowed out after a lifetime of awesome work, our own Mowzey Radio rushed things. His remarkable offer has been intense but short-lived. You saw that there was a lot more where those hits came from. It is now all over. Three-plus years ago, Mowzey, his singing mate Weasel, and the singer Lillian Mbabazi, also the mother of Mowzey's children, were having what looked like a downtime in the evening by the lake waters in Munyonyo, just outside the Commonwealth Resort. It was a weekend. My toddler daughter shuffled toward Mowzey's party, smiled, waved. Then she did it again. As the group left, she looked at them intently, prompting Mowzey to quip: "eh, this one loves abalaasi." If singing is allowed out there, there is no reason others should not hear Mowzey's voice. Bernard Tabaire is a media trainer and commentator on public affairs based in Kampala. bernard.tabaire@gmail.com