Kenyan football fans are livid after soccer legends were overlooked at the expense of celebrities to welcome the World Cup trophy to Kenya. Many wondered why sportsmen, who put Kenya on the football map, were not part of the delegation that travelled to Ethiopia and accompanied the trophy to Nairobi on Monday morning. Instead, they claim, the Sh1 billion silverware was accompanied by a team of journalists, influencers and socialites. To be fair, though, the tour is funded and organised by Coca cola, a private company that is under no obligation to select certain individuals to be on the entourage. Kerubo Momanyi touched off the debate on Facebook when she ranted: "In a country where Dennis Oliech is roaming the streets, screen sirens like (redacted) were among the select few that went to collect the World Cup Trophy from Addis. We are jokers as Kenyans then we wonder why leadership doesn't take sports seriously... As a footie-phile, this is insulting." On Twitter, Kenyans also weighed in. But this country is a joke. The niggas & slay queens that went to bring the world cup on the #TrophyTour to Nairobi have like zero contribution to Kenyan football. People like kina Joe Kadenge & Dennis Oliech should've been on that plane, instead... .NVM - Robert Cazorla (@CazorlaRoba) February 26, 2018 Legends like Dennis oliech,bob ogolla,Ghost mulee,JJ masiga should be accompanying the trophy https://t.co/Cx85Z3bNw0 -- jerry odhiambo (@jerry_odhiambo) February 27, 2018 George Jakadady Okeno added: "Kenya wachana nayo remember when Kenya sevens won the sevens trophy real fans and supporters of Rugby were denied chance by union to go to state house with the team only for Kenyans who support other sports to go its only that I don't want to call names, some names were struck of the register 11th hour to be replaced by people who never even support the team." Kwame Nkuruma quipped: "You are lucky githeri man did not attend despite invitation. Am told he had blacked out." Anthony Oballah went on: "Joy riders, opportunists, gold diggers. Look at their dresscode and body language does it justify the end result. Tunacheswa." Tony Ontita said: "Spot on, but at least the clowns know soccer exists. We in the creative industry are 100% sure Bwana Echesa has NO idea kuna hii kitu (&Culture) in his docket. Hapo tuli-echeswa!!"