THE Museums Association of Namibia (MAN) hosted a stakeholder's workshop earlier this week in its first step towards the development of The Museum of Namibian Music. The workshop was an information-sharing session that brought together 29 stakeholders in the form of musicians across all cultures, genres and demographics, archivists, culture officers from the directorate of heritage and culture programmes, music lecturers from local universities and colleges, tourism and intellectual property experts, museum experts, composers and musicologists. On 19 and 20 February, these stakeholders met to discuss and find the way forward for the development of the museum which is but one of the four components in a project entitled 'Museum Development as a Tool for Strengthening Cultural Rights in Namibia'. The project is funded by the European Union, implemented by MAN and was launched in Windhoek on 27 November 2017. The European Union will provide about N$3,4 million over a two-year period to support activities being implemented by the MAN to support regional museum development. The workshop covered issues relating to the development and sustainability of the museum, for example: Collecting or reproducing traditional musical instruments; developing a 'dream' for the museum; marketing the museum to the Namibian public; archiving Namibian music and memorabilia (such as posters and LP covers); the role of music during the liberation struggle; gospel music in Namibia; collecting and policy development; exhibitions to be showcased in the museum; the languages they are to be written in and the facilities the museum should offer to the general public. The workshop was held at Omuthiya which will be the home of the museum. The ministry of education, arts and culture has availed a state-of-the-art buildin to house the museum and music archive. The chosen venue is in line with MAN's commitment to decentralise development and create employment and economic growth in different communities across the country. The MAN invites musicians and members of the public to assist by identifying musical instruments, recordings, photographs or stories that might be included in the museum. For more information, contact Ndapewoshali Ashipala on 061 302 230 or museums @iway.na. - MAN