Today the tech sector is said to be burgeoning in emerging markets like Ethiopia. In a recent piece entitled 'Sheba Valley - The Making of Ethiopia's Tech Sector', it was reported that booming innovations are popping up not only in California but in emerging markets like Ethiopia, to a point, where while the US has its Silicon Valley and Nigeria Yabacon Valley, "Ethiopia has Sheba Valley as its emerging tech space in the making". In line with this, some people are seeing the country as having a booming software outsourcing industry. The cost of outsourcing to traditional locations like India, China and Eastern Europe is rapidly increasing; causing software companies to look to other locations such as Vietnam. But the prices Ethiopia offers are hard to match, argues Ben Goertzel, American Researcher and Co-founder of I-cog Labs. On a piece he wrote on 'Kurzweil Network', he said that although it is highly possible that some other African countries may offer similar opportunities, one thing that may make Ethiopia especially appropriate, however, is its relatively high-quality education system. "Programming and algorithms are about the same anywhere. Where technical matters are concerned, the students and faculty I met at Addis Ababa University might just as well have been at any engineering school in the developed world." Mentioning how emerging technologies like Nanotech, robotics and biotech require expensive lab equipment, which according to him is difficult to maintain appropriately in a location like Ethiopia, where spare parts are far away, he opines that AI distinguishes itself by requiring the least resources as it only requires computers and smart programmers, and an Internet connection. "Ethiopia has all of those, and at a remarkably low price. So it seems quite possible that Ethiopia, and other developing countries, could end up serving as the engines of AI advancement -- maybe even the location of the breakthrough from narrow AI to Artificial General Intelligence." Ethiopia is already becoming a thriving software outsourcing center. From serving as Headquarter and training facility for a company that is building a self-sustainable ecosystem that trains, hires and incubate African talent, one of the world's biggest high tech firms, dVentus Technologies, is managing smart grids, and related big data analytics, of global cities from its office in Addis Ababa. Also, young Ethiopian engineers are getting involved in various international projects such as AI development including emotion detection and voice/facial recognition for the cognitive part of Chinese humanoid robots. One of those AI groups, I-Cog Labs, do various international software outsourcing projects, with its customers hailing from places like Hong Kong, German and Australia. The Company has so far done up to 10 international projects for companies of caliber of Hersheys and Contender. Getenet Assefa, Founder and CEO of the Company, mentioned that countries like India and China have been benefiting from being a center for software and hardware designing outsourcing, and believes that Ethiopia has comparative advantage to be a major software outsourcing hub, if some of the bottlenecks facing the sector are rectified Explaining, he said the fact that Ethiopia is situated in Africa is one advantage given that not much has been in the continent regarding AI, and there are many possibilities to do many works here. "Secondly, we have late-comers advantage as in we are in a position to avoid mistakes advanced countries made and take short cut to leapfrog some phases." In addition, he mentions, the huge young population and talent pool of the country, with the considerably cheap cost of designing software compared to countries in Europe, Us, China and India, as the other advantages Ethiopia has going on for itself. Of course in order for Ethiopia to be a viable hub for software outsourcing, it has to solve some issues in terms of infrastructure and knowledge sharing. Groetzel wrote that despite the fact that Ethiopia's infrastructure is still in its early stage of development, it does not matter much for industries like software as it is possible to get a decent connection for a relatively modest price, with bandwidth situation rapidly improving and computer hardware and repair readily available. Then, there is knowledge, which is a critical source for competitive advantage and provides a key competitive edge. So, technological transfer and sharing on such cutting-edge technology as AI for a developing country like Ethiopia is important in order to maintain its growing momentum and serve as available option for software outsourcing. There are already some activities in this regard, with I-Cog Labs doing very good things. The Company has hosted a Robot football tournament, the first to be held in Africa, as such kind of programs are the best proven technology transfer mechanism, says Getenet. Such tournament allows various university students to develop their own AI software based on the ones already done by the Company, whilst serving as a platform to disseminate the knowledge. There is plan to hold the second robot football competition, and it is expected that this time in addition to various universities of the country, other African countries are expected to participate. In addition to this, I-Cog teaches coding programming to high school students with the inclination for AI and software in its academy and raise awareness about the sector to young bright students. There is also a public project, where anyone with start-up ideas can compete, in the works. Such types of initiatives and platforms is expected to share precious knowledge within the country, which will help the country in incubating and making itself available to be a thriving hub for AI research and development and software outsourcing industry.