Vice President, Dr Saulos Chilima has applauded contractors that are working on the damage on the M5 road at Lingadzi River Bridge in Salima for quickly reconnecting the road. The Vice president made the comment in Salima after visiting the damaged bridge and people affected by floods that hit Salima last week. Chilima said he was told that the contractor had managed to do the road works in two days out of the estimated four days. "The damage was big and affected business, but I am pleased to see that the contractor has worked so hard to quickly make the road passable again," said Chilima. Chilima said councillors and all other leaders should encourage people to take the national tree planting campaign seriously by planting more trees as most of the disasters are emanating from wanton cutting down of trees. "We are sad to note that our brothers and sisters were hit by disasters. as government we are working hard to assist them as well as look for permanent solutions to some of these calamities. Some of the houses are at risk to heavy winds and rains because of the nature of the materials they are made from. It is against this background that government is going to continue with the Cement and Malata Subsidy Program so that more people have strong and permanent houses that can withstand some of the threats," said Chilima. Chilima asked Salima District Council to come up with projects that would solve the problem of floods. On fears of food shortages, the Vice president assured people that government is aware and that it is doing everything possible to prepare food support for the affected. "I can assure you that the government is aware and no-one is going to die with hunger. "The problem of floods can be solved with dykes and I would want Salima to come up with such projects along that concept," said the Vice President. In his remarks, Salima District Commissioner (DC), Charles Mwawembe said at least 400 people have been affected by the floods and need assistance. "The floods have affected people in more than one area. As a district we have done what is required of us in terms of making assessments, providing shelter and food, but we still need more support," said Mwawembe. The DC said the Council has received overwhelming support from the Department of Disaster Management Affairs (DODMA), which hw said was a sign of commitment by government to support its people in times of trouble.