California band Incubus is set to hit South African shores later this month. The rock legends will play in Pretoria on 24 February and Cape Town on 28 February. The support acts were announced on Friday are some of the biggest acts in the country. THE PRETORIA SHOW: The Pretoria show will be held at the Voortrekker Monument and will include support by South Africa's biggest music acts including: Southern Wild, Hellcats, BCUC, Dan Patlansky and Cortina Whiplash with two more thrilling acts to be announced next week. Fans can look forward to a full day of stomping music from noon to midnight, just like a mini music festival, and with that comes everything you would expect, including loads of well-stocked bars and a variety of food stations. MORE ABOUT EACH OF THE ACTS: Southern Wild: Headed by 2011 South African Idols winner Dave van Vuuren, Southern Wild provides an original music experience. The band describes each song as a layered journey, where lyrical melodies rest between expressive guitar riffs. Hellcats: A two-piece band, stripped down, performing bare knuckle rock. Their music is unashamedly raw, and their live performance is full throttle energy. With colossal sound, their songs vibrate through the crowd. BCUC: Bantu Continua Uhuru Consciousness (BCUC) moves the audience - both physically and emotionally with an explosion of passion, funk and rhythm. They baptized their unique sound as 'indigenous funky soul'. Dan Patlansky: An international sensation in his own right, Patlansky is a maestro on guitar and has ploughed his way up the charts in the UK and USA with his signature blues music. Billed as a modern blues guitarist sensation, there's no stopping this musical giant when he's on stage. Cortina Whiplash: From their silky jazz riffs in 'Music ruined my life' to their psychedelic outbursts in 'Make it hard', this all-girl band shakes the rock scene regularly, so be prepared to get your feathers ruffle. CAPE TOWN SHOW: In Cape Town, fans will be treated to Southern Wild, BRYNN and Retro Dizzy. The show will be held at the Green Point A Track - a new, central venue opposite the Cape Town Stadium. MORE ABOUT EACH ACT: Retro Dizzy: A solid new Psychedelic Surf Rock band from Cape Town who put on a crazy energetic show. Their energy on stage is a contagious effort that is sure to get the crowd feeling groovy. BRYNN: A five-piece alternative folk band, the boys from Cape Town add drums, guitar, bass and violins to their musical mix, and their new-fangled sound is a welcomed addition to the South African music scene. TICKET INFORMATION: Tickets are on sale now from here and range from R175 (for kids between 3 and 16) to R395 for general access and R795 for Golden Circle tickets (excluding booking fees). EVENT INFORMATION FOR INCUBUS IN PRETORIA: DATE: Saturday, 24 February 2018 SUPPORT ACTS: Southern Wild, Hellcats, BCUC, Dan Patlansky and Cortina Whiplash. VENUE: Voortrekker Monument TIME: Noon - Midnight EVENT INFORMATION FOR INCUBUS IN CAPE TOWN: DATE: Wednesday, 28 February 2018 SUPPORT ACTS: Southern Wild, Retro Dizzy and BRYNN VENUE: Green Point A Track TIME: 16:00 (Gates open) Source: Supplied