More than 30 women were angered on Tuesday when they were turned away from a Kenya Defence Forces recruitment in Msambweni Constituency, Kwale County. Senior Recruiting Officer Lt Colonel Langat announced that only men would participate in the recruitment, as there were no slots for women in Msambweni. ANGERED Speaking at Jomo Kenyatta Primary School grounds where they were conducting the exercise, he said the recruitment was not discriminating against women. The women disagreed. "I know many of the women are disappointed with the fact that we have no slots for them now, but maybe there will be a time when we will reduce the number of men," Col Langat said. The women, who were among more than 200 youth who turned up for hiring, said they were also turned away last year. "Last year they gave the same excuse. Does it mean there are no more vacancies for women in the forces?" one woman asked. Col Langat said they are targeting to recruit 20 to 25 youth from Kwale. CORRUPTION He said they began recruitment on Monday and there have been no cases of corruption due as they put in place measures to prevent the crime. "We discourage corruption because it is against the law and we want to be fair to all without giving preference or favour to any individual," the officer said. Col Langat said most of the youth who were disqualified in the exercise were underweight and some did not meet the height requirements. "Most of the candidates who turned up failed to meet the required grades especially in sciences. We need technicians to serve in the military but most of them did not take subjects like physics, which becomes a challenge," he said. Mr Abdallah Said, who spoke to the Nation, said he was disqualified because he did not have a birth certificate. "I'm really disappointed because from the qualifications I read there was nowhere it was indicated that one must carry a birth certificate," he said. Mr Said added that in last year's recruitment the KDF officers did not ask for birth certificates.