The legendary kwaito group, Bongo Maffin have joined the African Creative Revolution. Led by incredible singer-song writer, Thandiswa Mazwai, the group will make their historic reunion after 12-years apart at One Source Live (OSL) on Saturday 24 March 2018. MORE ABOUT THE EVENT: One Source Live is an all-day festival celebrating the transformative power of African creativity spanning music, fashion, art and photography. Happening over two parts, with a day time and a night programme, the multi-level event will take over the 1 Eloff Precinct downtown Jo'burg bringing together leaders of a new breed of Creative Revolutionaries changing the way the world sees Africa. THE LINE-UP: Gqom music pioneer, DJ Maphorisa and the chart topping Nigerian reggae-dancehall star, Patoranking have also answered the call of the movement led by Absolut ambassador and award-winning rap star Khuli Chana who will host the main stage at OSL. Sho Madjozi joins Khuli in curating her own stage on the rooftop pulling in hip-hop rising star, Youngsta, and a list of the freshest rappers and vocalists working in Africa today. Mixing it up in the precinct too, leading African Creative revolutionaries and superheroes, South African stylist, and multimedia visual artist Trevor Stuurman, Belgium-born, Senegalese artist, Fabrice Monteiro along with renowned Kenyan photographer, Osborne Macharia will be taking art lovers on a journey into their creative vision of new African futures with their interdisciplinary work. THE EXPERIENCE: The Absolut One Source Live experience will also include the work of rising graffiti artists; young creatives and crafters, food stalls and bars with great music by DJ Jawz, DJ Shimza and others livening-up the space. Amidst all the great collaborative creative performances on offer at OSL, art lovers will be able to enjoy great food and craft wears from a pop-up market that will be installed at the event. The Absolut One Source Live experience will also include the work of rising graffiti artists; young creatives and crafters, food stalls and bars with great music by DJ Jawz, DJ Shimza and others livening-up the space. TICKET INFORMATION FOR ONE SOURCE LIVE: Ticket prices are R250 (early bird), R290 (General Access) and VIP table bookings will be available starting at R6000. Visit onesourcelive.com to book tickets. Source: Channel24