Local singer Austin Luwano, aka Uncle Austin, this week talked about his experience with fallen GoodLyfe singer Mowzey Radio, calling it the best. Austin, who travelled to Uganda along with other Rwandans for Radio's burial, told Chimpreports that the most hilarious thing he could recall was when Radio and him dated the same girl. "There was this beautiful girl that stayed in the same area as us, she was my girlfriend but Radio didn't know. He dated her and used to give her gifts which she would bring to me," he said. He, however, remembered how talented the Leesu singer was before his life was cut short after a bar brawl. "I remember when he was joining Leone Island, he told me that he had met Chagga and that he was lucky to be a part of Chameleone's band. I, however, reminded him how lucky Chameleone was to have him because of his immense talent," he added. Weasel gets first booking as a solo singer, in London After the death of one half of the Goodlyfe singers, Radio, we are told that Weasel has been booked to perform at an event for the very first time alone. Weasel will be in London at the Royal Regency on March 31. This is the first show the Goodlyfe singer has been booked to perform alone and revellers do not know what to expect, which makes it exciting. The event in London is dubbed Easter Bash and the theme is purely to celebrate the life of Mowzey Radio. Weasel will travel alongside other Ugandan artistes, Eddy Kenzo, Ykee Benda, Spice Diana and Cindy. Vanessa Mdee: I almost quit music after spending seven days in jail Tanzanian singer Vanessa Mdee recently opened up about an ordeal that made her almost quit music. Last year, the Tanzanian government went after a couple of famous celebrities accusing them of drug trafficking. This was after it had decided to step up its war against fighting drug abuse. Vanessa Mdee was one of those who were arrested and ended up spending seven days in jail. She is currently in Kenya promoting her new album Money Mondays. She was at Kiss FM's morning show speaking with Adelle and Shaffie. She opened up about her ordeal which pushed her to the edge of almost quitting music. Dub Inc reggae band in town Popular reggae music band, 'Dub Incorporation', commonly known as 'Dub Inc' is in Rwanda to headline the sixth edition of Isaano Arts Festival. The 15-man band renowned for their live music in France and other parts of Europe will be performing alongside other local musicians including Andy Bumuntu and students of the Nyundo Music School. We are told that the group is set to headline the show slated to take place at Mulindi Japan One Love, popularly known as 'kwa Rasta.' Five selected for Godfather East Africa audition in Kenya Godfather East Africa, a spin off from the once popular Big Brother Africa (BBA), is set to air this year and word reaching us is that socialite Teta Sandra was among the five selected. The first audition which took place in Rwanda, we are told, saw Teta, Shiny Abdallah, Gigi Mugisha, Sissi Ngamije, Jay D and Vanessa Uwase secure tickets to travel to Kenya. The five will head to Kenya for another audition, after which only four will be selected to participate in the reality show. We are told that Teta, stands higher chances thanks to intense lobbying.