Leolex first breakdown hit all like a brick of ton. No one in the House saw the lightning speed blow that Leo inflicted upon Alex. It all started out very casually, when Biggie paired the discreet Leo with the bubbly Alex during the first week.  Despite radically different personalities, Leo being the hands-off guy and Alex being of the life of the party kind of a girl, these two had found their own ways to perfectly blend in. They seemed to have their own silent language: just one look was enough for one to understand another.  Unlike other pairs in the House, Leolex looked like a solid combination of camaraderie, care and consistency. How to Lose A Girl Earlier Leo had been the first to confess that he knew Alex had a soft spot for him, and that she liked him a lot.  At the time he called Alex too young and fragile for him to toy with.  Yet despite being unpaired and having formed new partnerships, whenever Alex was in need, like when she was tending to the twin dolls, Leo flew to her rescue within a split second. She didn't have to utter a word for him to sense what she was going through. Alex on another hand has always been herself, never trying to play any game on anyone. No one in the House is immune to her hugs, which may explain why she has been criticised for having no concept of private space. In Leo, Alex found a confidante, a friend with whom to laugh and cry. They walked the same stride, shared the same food and same bed. It was inevitable that these two were bound to lock lips, like they did. At bedtime, Alex straddled Leo and started caressing his face, before pulling the duvet as they engaged in a long deep kiss away from prying eyes. Well their activity caught Ifu Ennada's attentions who cheekily pulled the duvet off them. Tears of A Woman Out of the blue, Leo later told Alex that girls are not real, and that he was displeased with her behaviour, which made Alex burst into tears. After all he had returned her kiss, and Alex was hurt and crying so much that even Cee-C came close to comfort her. What's more unusual was to hear Cee-C who only talks about herself give her a piece of advice. Still Leo said he didn't mind sharing a bed with Alex.