The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has signed a loan agreement with the African Development Fund (ADF) to boost continent's economic development. The $700.9 million (about Rwf600.7 billion) loan is part of Japan's contribution to the Fund's fourteenth replenishment (ADF-14), but this is the first JICA credit facility to ADF, a statement released by African Development Bank (AfDB) indicates. ADF is administered by the African Development Bank and contributes to poverty reduction and economic and social development in the least developed African countries by providing concessional funding for projects and programs, as well as technical assistance for studies and capacity-building activities. According to AfDB, the loan will provide resources to support recipient countries during the ADF-14 period for the next two years. "I would like to commend Japan's commitments to Africa's development by supporting the Fund with the $700 million loan and a grant of $328 million," said Akinwumi Adesina, the AfDB's president, in the statement. The AfDB chief added that Japan has "significantly contributed to the ADF commitment capacity for the 2017-2019 period, noting that Japan has been a long-standing development partner for Africa, with a significant portion of its aid commitments to the continent channeled through AfDB. "Japan is the second-largest contributor to the Fund in cumulative terms, and it has increased its contributions significantly over time," Adesina said. Hiroshi Kawamura, Japan's representative in Ivory Coast, said funding will help fast-track continent's social economic development. he stated that the country's contributions to the ADF-14 replenishment will increase Japan's contributions to 7.3 per cent compared to 6.7 per cent for the ADF-13 period. "We, therefore, hope the loans and grants will be used effectively to improve economic and social conditions of less privileged people in Africa." JICA chief representative Tsutomu Iimura reassured AfDB of the organisation's commitment to supporting the bank's development agenda. Iimura added that there is no limit in the potential collaboration and synergies between the two institutions.