National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) has launched the People's Choice for the 17th National Arts Merit Awards (NAMA) voting platform on Monday 5th February 2018. Voting will run until the awards night on 17th February 2018 at 2000hrs. The People's Choice Award is a special award given to an artist or arts organisation selected by the public. The public is afforded the opportunity to vote for an artist of their own choice at every NAMA. To vote for one's favourite artist for this year's People's Choice Award, one has to send the artist's name to this Whatsapp number +263 772 168 045. The syntax is #ARTIST NAME. The Artist with the most votes will be declared a winner and awarded at the awards ceremony. As the name suggests, the People's Choice Award is given to an individual/institution that would have received the most votes from members of the public through voting on the platform given above. The public is at liberty to select an artist of their choice in any of the NAMA categories of Music, Literary Arts, Dance, Visual Arts, Film and Television, Theatre and Spoken Word. Meanwhile, the list of Nominees was released last week and it has attracted a lot of excitement from the generality of arts followers. The 17th NAMA shall be televised on ZTV and many arts lovers and followers can make a date for the live coverage on 17th February 2018. The ceremony shall also be streamed live on more that 30 Facebook pages already linked to the official NAMA NACZ Facebook page. National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (NACZ) has launched the People's Choice for the 17th National Arts Merit Awards (NAMA) voting platform on Monday 5th February 2018. Voting will run until the awards night on 17th February 2018 at 2000hrs. The People's Choice Award is a special award given to an artist or arts organisation selected by the public. The public is afforded the opportunity to vote for an artist of their own choice at every NAMA. To vote for one's favourite artist for this year's People's Choice Award, one has to send the artist's name to this Whatsapp number +263 772 168 045. The syntax is #ARTIST NAME. The Artist with the most votes will be declared a winner and awarded at the awards ceremony. As the name suggests, the People's Choice Award is given to an individual/institution that would have received the most votes from members of the public through voting on the platform given above. The public is at liberty to select an artist of their choice in any of the NAMA categories of Music, Literary Arts, Dance, Visual Arts, Film and Television, Theater and Spoken Word. Meanwhile, the list of Nominees was released last week and it has attracted a lot of excitement from the generality of arts followers. The 17th NAMA shall be televised on ZTV and many arts lovers and followers can make a date for the live coverage on 17th February 2018. The ceremony shall also be streamed live on more that 30 Facebook pages already linked to the official NAMA NACZ Facebook page.