Nigerian songstress Niniola opened this third BBNaija Live Show to a delirious audience with her hit Maradona. As a new week started, Host Ebuka took a moment to chat Housemates up, poking Cee-C and Miracle about their relations with Tobi and Nina. Well Cee-C couldn’t stand being put on the spot as she hid her face behind Tobi’s shoulder. While Miracle embarrassed grin forced him to shyly look away. There was so much more bang for Big Brother’s bucks tonight, as Host Ebuka grilled the Nominated pairs further. He called on Pritto, Loto, K_Square, Angelifu and Bamteddy to rise only to Save Loto and K_Square. One could have heard a pin drop, as the remaining Nominated pairs held their breath. In the heat of the moment, some serious teeth grinding, eye twitching and fist tightening happened. After a brief interlude to chat other Housemates up, Host Ebuka casually informed the Nominated pairs that it was actually a big fat and fake joke, that they were Safe and that the real Nominations were only just about to start. No one expected that it would be self-composed Anto who upon hearing the news fell on her knees, hand-wiping tears and shaking of relief. It also came as a surprise that Lolu collapsed into Alex’s arms to be hugged while loudly wailing, although his sobbing was covered by louder shouts of joy. Riding the wave of respite, Host Ebuka introduced a hips-shaking game to shortlist the runners to the Head of House title. In the Arena, the ladies of the House gracefully though hysterically executed themselves, and Khloe, Ifu-Ennada and Bambam emerged as the triumphant trio. Then the guys of the House had their turn, but their performance was so out-of-sync and so loud that within seconds, Big Brother interrupted the game, disqualifying all of them in one breath. Poor guys - the look of defeat on their faces was priceless as they dragged their feet out of the Arena.  But defeat as the saying goes is only a bad news. Who do you think will rock the #BBNaija Chair this week?