Gaborone — The nation should brace itself for the long awaited mouth-watering gospel awards which will, without doubt, elevate the standard of gospel music in the country and also serve as a morale booster to many gospel aspirants and new entrants. Dubbed Botswana Gospel Music Awards (BOGMA), which is the brain child of gospel artistes some of whom have been lying low and out of public picture, the awards are billed for Boipuso Hall on August 4 and anticipated to attract a lot of entrants as many have started enquiring. In an interview, BOGMA chairperson, Gloria Dzwikiti, said they found it fit to come up with this initiative as a means of recognising and rewarding gospel artistes as well as re-energising them because currently it seemed gospel music had gone lukewarm. Dzwikiti regretted that though there was abundant talent which needed to be precisely recognised and nurtured, this had not been happening at desired national level. With this new development, she said, the awards would bring growth, unity and prosperity among gospel musicians. Moreover, it would bring them closer together as gospel family. The awards are going to be categorised into 30 classifications so as to accommodate all forms of gospel genre, which is awash in the country. Registration dates and other details will be communicated soon to afford aspirants time to ready themselves for the big day. In the meantime, Dzwikiti said some regional powerful gospel magnates have shown interest in the awards with sponsors also coming forth because they have been fascinated by the way the awards are being organised. Dzwikiti, who has a gospel album titled Tshepo Ya Me under her arm, is currently busy recording a 12-track album at Touch Records under the tutelage of Thabo Kgaswane. Dzwikiti, who has been preoccupied with building worship teams, is also a business lady of repute and admitted liking bouncy gospel music thus advised gospel artistes to up their music so that it could appeal to the masses within Botswana and abroad. Source : BOPA