Kampala — Police have instituted investigations into the operations of Immigration and aviation police that could have facilitated the entry into Uganda, of a US national arrested for possessing military weapons and domestic violence. While addressing the media on Monday, police spokesperson, Emilian Kayima, said Mr Paul Rodgers Mathias, who was apprehended over the weekend was being detained at Nalufenya, a high profile detention facility in Jinja District. "We are interrogating him at Nalufenya and we want to understand how he got these weapons which are a monopoly of the army officers. By virtue of these weapons which we recovered from his home; he might be charged with terrorism and arms smuggling but we are yet to conclude," Mr Kayima said. Kampala Metropolitan police (KMP) acting on orders of KMP police commander, Frank Mwesigwa, searched Mr Rogers home in Bwebajja along Entebbe Road where army uniforms, ammunitions and knives were recovered. A search at Mr Rogers' home came after his wife, Lillian Keitesi, reported a case of domestic violence. Mr Mwesigwa said the case file had been sanctioned by the Resident State Attorney and the suspect was to be produced in court anytime. Mr Kayima said the suspect was in March last year intercepted by Immigration officers at Entebbe International Airport that confiscated a rifle he had brought in the country illegally. "We are investigating circumstances under which he sneaked these weapons into the country without being detected at the airport. We are reviewing all his travel records to establish who cleared him and what items did he possess on his entry," Mr Kayima said. Mr Kayima added: "For every property cleared, there are documentations and there's a well laid down procedure and whoever cleared and did not follow the procedure will have to answer why or why not. We are looking at so many things including international and the law the law here [Ugandan]." US Embassy spokesperson, Phil Dimon, said the Embassy was aware of Mr Rogers' arrest and could not divulge more information due to privacy considerations. "We are aware of reports regarding the arrest of a U.S. citizen in Uganda. When a U.S. citizen is detained overseas, the Department works to provide all appropriate consular assistance. Due to privacy considerations, we have no further comment," Mr Dimon said in an email.