NAMIBIAN journalists say although they bear the brunt of politicians' anger, they are overworked and underpaid. Talking to The Namibian as part of World Press Freedom Day, they touched on various issues, among them lack of representation and unity. Although the United Nations General Assembly declared the press freedom day in 1993 to celebrate freedom of speech and remind governments to respect their commitment towards press freedom, it also serves as a reflection for media practitioners regarding their professional ethics. Namibia Press Agency editorial manager Jata Kazondu, who had been at the forefront of advocating for a union, said the main challenge was getting people to work together. "Journalists are the ones running around, getting intimidated by politicians, but who protects them? Who stands up for their safety?" he asked. Kazondu said the issue had been a long time coming, with the first association for journalists set up in the early 1990s, and a Windhoek Press Club replacing it. Both, he said, fizzled out. He added that there is a need for political will because back in the day, the idea of a union failed because of the divide between public and corporate media. "There were stumbling blocks. The sooner we go beyond our differences, the better, " Kazondu said. The Editors Forum of Namibia cannot adequately represent journalists' interests because they are a clique of editors that set up policies, he claimed. The Southern Times acting editor, Tileni Mongudhi, said the country has a long way to go when compared to other southern African countries regarding protecting the interests of journalists. He observed that journalism is a profession like any other, and scribes need to be treated with respect, while their rights should also be represented by a union. "I feel at some point, we will have a problem because we do not have a union. We will be shooting ourselves in the foot. It is long overdue," Mongudhi stressed. He added that the industry was losing veteran journalists to other sectors, and is now saturated with junior journalists. "A lot of juniors lacking experience are thrown into the deep end. But despite that, they are making it," Mongudhi said. He added that journalists are mostly overworked and underpaid, while newsrooms are understaffed, but the quality of news is improving, with various media houses competing against one another. The editor of the Patriot, Mathias Haufiku, Informante's Chris Jacobie, and Namibian Sun's editor, Festus Nakatana, all agreed that journalists are not treasured now like in the past. Jacobie said this is unfair as it downplays the importance of the media, while Haufiku said society must instead treasure journalists for exposing social evils. Nakatana said most of those holding public office "have little or no idea at all about the role of the media in a democracy such as ours". "It is an undisputed fact that without the media, a lot of corrupt practices and social ills would not have come to light," said Haufiku. He said he would support a free, independent and robust union since "journalists are open to exploitation from their employers because in most cases, they are not in a position to negotiate their salaries". New Era's managing editor, Toivo Ndjebela, said journalism is not the richest profession in town and, as such, the working conditions are not always great. Ndjebela said common challenges include low pay, and the absence of critical benefits such as medical aid and even a pension. "Some don't even get overtime. Journalism is a demanding trade, and thus could be taxing emotionally and even physically. To think that someone who works odd hours and sometimes under life-threatening circumstances has no such benefits is tantamount to outright exploitation," said Ndjebela. He said, however, that the question regarding setting up a union is best put to journalists as it is entirely up to them to come up with any such union. "The world had changed from the days when journalism was only about the greater good of society without consideration for the well-being of journalists. "To attract and retain the best brains in journalism, the industry must start taking care of its own. If the status quo remains, the media industry will continue to lose its personnel to high-paying industries, and this would negatively impact on the quality," he stressed. Confidente's manager: editorial services, Elvis Muraranganda, said unions are critical, and rightfully so, every group of workers must be represented, while Nampa's news editor, Maggy Thomas, reiterated the need for journalists to unite, instead of working in isolation. "This is one of the reasons why Namibian journalists have not come together to form a union that represents them," Thomas said. Acting assistant news editor at The Namibian's Theresia Tjihenuna said that apart from the profession not being taken seriously, journalists in Namibia are no longer awarded or recognised for their outstanding work like in the past through events such as the Namibia media awards. She said media bodies such as the Namibian chapter of the Media Institute of Southern Africa, that used to award journalists for their hard work has long been dysfunctional. "There are journalists who are doing outstanding work, yet we no longer have media awards to motivate and recognise those who have made significant contributions to the industry and who are telling compelling stories," she said, adding that like other professionals, journalists also want to feel that their work is making an impact in society. The Villager's editor, Linekela Halwoodi, said challenges faced by Namibian journalists post-independence are often trivial when compared to journalists who continue to die on the job in other parts of Africa and the world. Journalists in Namibia have been able to enjoy the freedom of the press, which is a result of working in a democratic society, which in part exists because of a free press, she added. "That, however, does not exempt journalists from other challenges such as censorship or interference from government institutions, as has been witnessed recently. These are, however, manageable hurdles and not life-threatening issues," she stated. About Moses Kaurimuti's attempt in 2014 to launch a media union, called Namibia Information and Communication Workers Union (NICWU), Halwoodi said one could not say that there is an absence of a union to represent journalists. "We maybe need to question why this union has not been able to get off the ground four years later, and why it has not been able to fulfil its purpose," she continued. Action Coalition of Namibia's Frederico Links said despite the fact that Namibia now ranks second to Ghana regarding the media freedom index by Reporters without Borders, Namibia seems no more transparent and accessible than it was two or three years ago. "For this is a moment, this World Press Freedom Day, to reflect on how to strengthen our resolve and redouble our efforts in the never-ending fight for the freedoms necessary for the maintenance and enhancement of democracy, and the creation of a truly prosperous and progressive society," he said.