Windhoek — The Angolan and Namibian governments assumed on Thursday om Windhoek the compromise of building two monuments in the localities of Cassinga (Huíla) and Chetequera (Cunene) in the near future to honour the victims of the Cassinga massacre perpetuated by the South African army against a Namibian refugee camp. The Cassinga attack, which began on May 4, 1978, was the second major military operation of the then South African racist army in Angola after the "savannah operation." In addition to the field, the action also targeted the SWAPO delegation in Chetequera, in the interior of Angola. The Cassinga massacre, which killed thousands of Namibians and also Angolans, and the then regime of apartheid named iy "Operation Reindeer". "Reindeer", a common mammal in South America, known as caribou. Cassinga was an area where refugees passed by as those who escaped from the racist apartheid regime in South-West Africa (now Namibia). The commitment to build the two monuments was taken up by the presidents of Angola, Joao Lourenco, and of Namibia, Hage Geingob, during a joint press conference held at the Presidential Palace in Windhoek as part of the three-day visit by the Head of State to that neighbouring State. The intention is already formalized through an agreement that will be signed next week between the parties in Angola, said President Joao Lourenco, who believes that this assumption will boost, even more, the blood ties between the two States. Angola was the main platform for the liberation struggle in Namibia, which proclaimed its independence on 21 March 1990. On September 18 of that same year, in the Angolan city of Lubango, relations between Angola and the newly born Namibian State formally began. The two countries signed the General Agreement between the Government of the then People's Republic of Angola and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on Cooperation and the Establishment of the Angolan-Namibian Joint Commission. Angola and Namibia share a land border of 1,376 kilometers and since 2007 the movement of citizens of the two countries in this zone is partially free.