A Niger Delta militant group, Urhobo Liberation Force (ULF), threatened yesterday to blow oil facilities and ensure that the nation's economy was grounded unless government was ready to honour pledges made to the region. In a statement, jointly signed by Orubu Ekpe and Mike Agbalele for ULF, the group issued a 14-day deadline for the Federal Government to make necessary budgetary provision for the Federal University of Petroleum Resources (FUPRE), Effurun, Delta State, in the 2018 Appropriation Bill. "We are giving 14 days ultimatum to the Federal Government to make adequate budgetary provision for the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE) as stated in the Act establishing the university accented to by the President, Muhammadu Buhari on October 17, 2107. If not, the oil and gas facilities in Urhobo land will be blown off." The group accused the present administration of marginalisation that undermines the progress of oil producing communities. The group stated that it would return the country to zero oil and gas production and force the country into another recession if adequate provision was not made within stipulated time. The militants said it would seek support of all the militant groups in the region to join forces in correcting "this wicked and devilish agenda of this administration aimed at under developing the oil-rich Niger Delta." Former President, Nigeria Association of Petroleum Explorationists (NAPE) and Chief Executive Officer, Degeconek (Nigeria) Limited, Abiodun Adesanya said any attempt to increase security tension in the country would worsen inflow of investment into the oil and gas sector. Managing Partner, The Chancery Associates, Emeka Okwuosa, however insisted that government must not continue to give in to the demand of the militants, saying the group must allow gradual implementation of key initiatives in the region. Meanwhile, the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), a non-governmental organization, has given President Muhammadu Buhari ultimatum to sign into law the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and other bills before August 2018. It said that the current administration had during the electoral campaigns in 2015 promised to addressing the corruption in the oil and gas sector.