Get ready for a selection of non-stop, pulsating, explosive, jaw-breaking, bone-crushing, no-holds-barred movies, built around legendary Hollywood action heroes. Hot on the heels of the M-Net Movies Marvel Studios Pop-Up Channel, the high-octane M-Net Movies Bang Bang Heroes channel is yet another unique pop-up offering - a testosterone-fuelled TV experience that will be available to DStv Premium, Compact Plus and Compact customers. The M-Net Movies Bang Bang Heroes pop-up channel will run for 24 days: from Friday 18 May until Sunday 10 June , and will screen a collection of over 90 movies featuring cinema's most iconic pop-culture action legends. Larger-than-life blockbuster stars Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Jason Statham, Jet Li, Dolph Lundgren, Bruce Willis and Chuck Norris will flex their pecs on channel 109. While viewers will see eight incredible titles per day, each of these actors will have their very own time in the limelight one day during prime time. For example, on Friday 18 May Sylvester Stallone will strut his stuff in Get Carter , Cobra and Over The Top . Saturday, 19 May then belongs to Jason Statham with The Transporter, The Mechanic Resurrection and Parker and on Sunday, 20 May, Jet Li moves into action with The One, Romeo Must Die , and Dragon Fight . Be sure to tune in when Bruce Willis takes on the world in every single instalment of the Die Hard franchise on Saturday 25 May . Then, don't miss Dolph Lundgren's fighting spirit on Saturday, 26 May in Masters Of The Universe , Universal Soldier: Day Of Reckoning and Skin Trade . Catch all the action when Jean-Claude Van Damme , the Muscles of Brussels, shows off his brawn on Saturday, 2 June in Streetfighter, Shepherd, and The Sudden Death . To round off this amazing experience the channel will play all three "Expendables" films on Sunday, 10 June beginning with The Expendables at 16:30, followed by The Expendables 2 at 18:15 ending with The Expendables 3 at 20:00. Find the schedule on Mnet.tv/bangbang or on DStv.com under printable schedules as well as on the EPG (Electronic Programming Guide) on your decoder. Source: Supplied