Entebbe — More than 1,000 fishermen, who have been operating at Makusa and Lwamunyo islands in Entebbe, Wakiso District are crying foul after being evicted by soldiers under the Fisheries Protection Unit (FPU) of Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF). The two tiny islands measuring an acre each have over the last three decades been occupied by people dealing in fish-related businesses. The eviction, which was effected early this week, came after the one-month ultimatum given to the fishermen to vacate the islands elapsed. Mr Fred Sserwada, the Makusa Landing Site chairman, castigated the soldiers for failing to give them ample time to take away their household property but instead destroyed them. He claimed that the soldiers also destroyed their houses and boats, leaving them with nothing. "The excessive force used to evict us was uncalled for because we were ready to vacate voluntarily. Some lost everything while others sustained injuries in the process of salvaging their property," he said on Wednesday. But Maj James Nuwagaba, the commander of FPU, said the evicted islanders were given enough time to relocate but many became adamant. He insists that the affected islanders were interfering with known fish breeding grounds which must be preserved. FPU was established by the government early last year to crack down on illegal fishing. During their operations, many people dealing in immature fish were arrested and several ungazetted landing sites destroyed in the districts of Wakiso, Mpigi, Kalangala, Masaka, Kyotera Rakai, Mukono, Buvuma and Buikwe. After the eviction, Mr Sserwada said the affected islanders relocated to an open place at Mayanzi Village, Kigungu Sub-ward in Entebbe Municipality. "We have started constructing some temporary shelters on a piece of land offered by someone. However, every household has to pay Shs30,000 needed by the landlord every month," Mr Sserwada said. Entebbe Municipality deputy mayor Richard Sekyondo, who also doubles as area councillor, said they had already petitioned President Museveni to help the affected fishermen acquire legal fishing gears but they were evicted before the president intervened. Mr Ssekyondo said as municipal council, they have asked National Water and Sewerage Corporation to provide clean water to the affected residents and that construction of a toilet is underway to improve sanitation at their new location.