Relief may finally come for residents of Lagos as the state government yesterday said Waste Collector Operators (WCOs), otherwise known as PSP operators, have now been charged with the responsibility of managing residential and general waste collection, while Visionscape Sanitation Solutions has henceforth be mandated to implement waste management infrastructure development across the state. The noted that all hands are on deck to holistically address the challenges being experienced in waste management with the implementation of the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI), assuring that the issue would be addressed before the rainy season. Speaking at the annual Ministerial Press Briefing to mark the third year anniversary of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode's administration held at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre in Alausa, Commissioner for the Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, said CLI was introduced last year to foster broad reforms in solid waste management, saying the scheme remained the panacea for delivering efficient, effective and sustainable environment with its attendant benefits such as job creation, cleaner, safer and healthy environment. Responding to question on state of refuse in public places, the commissioner said the government, in partnership with all stakeholders, was working hard to address the challenge, just as he assured that it would soon be a thing of the past. "Very soon, Lagos will be very clean. We are working hard in partnership with all stakeholders to ensure we address the challenges. "We know that our population is increasing as available statistics indicate that 85 people enter Lagos every hour and very few of them go back, and as more people come in, the waste generated in the state is also increasing but we are working to put the right infrastructure and equipment in place to address waste management. However, one thing I can assure the people is that we are working and in another one month before the raining season, it will be over." Durosinmi-Etti warned residents to desist from indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the metropolis, saying it has strengthened its environmental law enforcement and arrested 2,097 environmental offenders. Harping on enforcement of Environmental Laws, he explained that operatives of the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) arrested 2,097 environmental offenders, comprising illegal street traders, hawkers, highway pedestrian defaulters, environmental nuisance polluters and cart-pushers. According to him, 136 offenders were engaged in communal service across the metropolis while others were arraigned for prosecution in line with the law at the Samuel Ilori Court, Ogba and Special Offences Mobile Court, Oshodi.