A galaxy of Kenyan athletes will be looking for excellent starts when the elite Diamond League series begins on Friday with the Doha leg in Qatar. World 10,000m bronze medallist Agnes Tirop has been sharpening her skills in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet as she looks to make a mark in 3,000m. Tirop said that she decided to run in the shorter race to help her improve on her speed ahead of a busy season. "My training has been good so far and I'm looking forward to a good run on Friday," said Tirop. She said she was preparing for a 10km race in India in two weeks time. "I have been out of serious competition for a long time and it will be good to see how I measure up with leading runners in Doha." Tirop will compete against other experienced athletes the likes of world 3,000m steeplechase bronze medallist Hyvin Kiyeng, Norah Jeruto, Caroline Kipkirui, World Cross Country bronze medallist Lilian Kasait and the World and Commonwealth Games champion in 5,000m Hellen Obiri, all Kenyans. MAKE A STATEMENT In 1,500m, World Under-18 champion George Manangoi will be keen to make a statement at the top level of senior competition. "This is my first Diamond League race and I have done my training well and my eyes are set on the prize. I don't have the experience but I am ready for anyone," said Manangoi. The young Manangoi, baby brother of the more illustrious Elijah, the World and Commonwealth Games 1,5000m champion, told Nation Sport that he will be picking up experience as he targets a great showing at the World Under-20 Championships in Tampere, Finland in July. The athlete should expect to face stiff competition from compatriots the likes of Jackson Kivuva, Bethwell Birgen, Charles Simotwo and Justus Soget among others. In 1,500m women, former world 800m champion Eunice Sum will lead other Kenyans who include Winny Chebet, Nelly Jepkosgei, Judith Kiyeng and Emily Tuei. World 800m bronze medallist Kipyegon Bett will be battling it out with Elijah Manangoi in the 800m race. Other Kenyans who will be featuring in the race include Nicholas Kipkoech and Ferguson Rotich.