Six people have been killed by floods and hundreds displaced as heavy rains continue to wreak havoc in Nyanza. In Kisumu, four people were swept away by floodwaters and 1,800 people have been displaced. The deaths were reported in Nyando, Nyakach, Chulaimbo and Muhoroni. VICTIMS According to Kisumu County Director of Special Programmes Ruth Odinga, the region has been affected by water coming down the Rift Valley, claiming lives and destroying property. She said several rivers in the county including Nyando broke their banks. Ms Odinga said the county has established seven relief centres for flood victims. She appealed to the national government to step in and help the victims. "We need more boats to enable us evacuate the elderly from flooded homes," she said. Meanwhile in Migori, the body of an unidentified man was found in River Migori near a bridge connecting Kenya and Tanzania. Migori County police boss Joseph Nthenge asked families whose kin has gone missing to come forth and check the body. Last week, a 14-year-old girl died in Migori after she was swept away by floods as she crossed Opija Bridge in Karungu, Nyatike. Officials say, Nyora, Kabuto and Sere villages in Nyatike Sub-County are the worst affected by the floods. About 500 households have moved to higher grounds with their livestock, awaiting for water levels in their homes to subside, Joshua Ngwala, a county official said. In Homa Bay County, pupils at Osodo Primary School may delay going back to school for term two starting this week after displaced familes camped at the school seeking safe shelter. the area was flooded with water. TRADERS AFFECTED Meanwhile, traders at Daraja Mbili market in Kisii County are counting losses after their business sheds were swept away by heavy rains. The traders are now appealing to the county government to hasten the finishing of the new market in the region to avoid more losses. Nathan Nyagwachi a fruits vendor in the market told the Nation that he has incurred Sh25, 000 loss following heavy rains. Moses Onderi, Kisii County committee member for Lands and Urban Development said the first phase of the project is complete. The project was meant to replace the present old, congested market that currently accommodates more than 8,000 traders, most of who have spilled onto the Kisii-Isebania highway. Reporting by Barrack Oduor, Rushdie Oudia, Elisha Otieno and Benson Ayienda