The garbage crisis in Mombasa may soon become a thing of the past after the county government announced plans to set up a waste recycling plant. In the Medium Term Draft Budget 2018/2019, the county has allocated Sh6.5 billion for the establishment of the waste recycling plant. According to Governor Joho's administration, the plant will see waste recycled into usable products. The time frame for the project is five years. In his first speech to the county assembly last September, Mr Joho said his administration would set up the plant at Kibarani. "We aim to create a sustainable environment by investing in an Integrated Solid Waste Management Plan at Kibarani. We will provide incentives to youth to engage them in garbage disposal and waste management practices. We will work with communities to improve public health and environmental management," Mr Joho said. DUMPSITE Two weeks ago, Mr Joho ordered the closure of Kibarani dumpsite within 70 days after launching 12 new garbage collection trucks. The county has now scaled up burning of garbage at the dumpsite with its impending closure. The dumpsite has earned the governor criticism from different quarters, notably tourism. It is an eyesore, and the garbage has also been spilling over into the Indian Ocean, causing pollution. "I want that dumpsite closed by the end of June. No more dumping of waste in Kibarani. Let it remain a road for travellers going to the airport. Create alternatives such as collecting garbage from households," Mr Joho ordered county executives. COLLECTION Garbage collection has been Mr Joho's biggest headache, with his government blamed for the frequent disease outbreaks in the county. The Kibarani dumpsite will be relocated to Mwakirunge in June. However, the plan has received opposition from different players including the aviation industry. Mwakirunge, which is about 20 kilometres from Mombasa town, is on a flight path. According to the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, a dumpsite should be at least 13 kilometres away from a flight path. But Mwakirunge is 12.9 kilometres away. Moi International Airport manager Walter Agong asked the county government to conduct a full aeronautical study. "The dumpsite is on a flight path and it is a track path. We have advised the county to conduct a full aeronautical study and then give us the report to approve or disapprove," he said.