Cory Hill and Ellis Jenkins have been named co-captains with Cardiff Blues scrumhalf Tomos Williams the sole uncapped player in Wales' squad for Tests against South Africa and Argentina. Wales will head to the Americas with a 31-man squad at the end of the month and will face the Springboks in their first test in Washington DC on June 2. They will then travel south to Argentina for two Tests against the Pumas on June 9 (San Juan) and June 16 (Santa Fe). Warren Gatland's side have won their last two outings against South Africa, both in Cardiff, but a neutral venue in the US capital awaits for the opening tour clash. Wales have won five out of the last six meetings against Argentina, all of which were at Principality Stadium. On home soil, the Rugby Championship side have won three of the last four tests against Wales (in 2004 and 2006) and the visitors last tour series win against the Pumas came in 1999 with the side captained by Rob Howley and featured Neil Jenkins as his half-back partner. "This summer is a great opportunity for this squad to build on their experience, get test match game time under their belt and face Rugby Championship opposition," said Gatland. "We have picked a squad of 31 to try and give players as much game time as possible. It shows the depth we have built in recent years that we have just one uncapped player in the squad in Tomos, but he has been in a number of squads so knows the environment well. "We have picked Cory and Ellis as co-captains, they are both leaders and have experience captaining at regional level so this is an opportunity for them to build on that. "This summer is another step on our 2019 RWC path and a great opportunity to build on recent campaigns." Wales Squad: Forwards Rob Evans (Scarlets), Wyn Jones (Scarlets), Nicky Smith (Ospreys), Elliot Dee (Dragons), Ryan Elias (Scarlets), Tomas Francis (Exeter Chiefs), Samson Lee (Scarlets), Dillon Lewis (Cardiff Blues), Adam Beard (Ospreys), Bradley Davies (Ospreys), Seb Davies (Cardiff Blues), Luke Charteris (Bath), Cory Hill (Dragons, co-captain), James Davies (Scarlets), Ellis Jenkins (Cardiff Blues, co-captain), Ross Moriarty (Gloucester), Josh Navidi (Cardiff Blues), Aaron Shingler (Scarlets) Backs Aled Davies (Scarlets), Gareth Davies (Scarlets), Tomos Williams (Cardiff Blues), Gareth Anscombe (Cardiff Blues), Rhys Patchell (Scarlets), Hadleigh Parkes (Scarlets), Owen Watkin (Ospreys), Scott Williams (Scarlets), Josh Adams (Worcester Warriors), Hallam Amos (Dragons), Steff Evans (Scarlets), George North (Northampton Saints), Tom Prydie (Scarlets) Source: Sport24