We are at the beginning of May and the Black Panther hype refuses to die. With the way people talk about this movie, you would think it was the only movie of significance that came out in 2018. No one can deny the fact that Black Panther is a good movie, but is it a great one? And I ask that because seven out of 10 people you talk to today will act like the Ryan Coogler-directed film is the most well-crafted blockbuster to hit the cinema in the last decade or so. But how much of Black Panther's hype is actually down to the fact that it is the first decently-directed black-led superhero movie in Hollywood history? I presented this question to someone online and he pretty much lost it; primarily because he thought I was trying to use the race card to diminish Black Panther's success. But I also think the explosive reactions I keep getting to the question of race and Black Panther only prove my point. This takes me back to Wonder Woman, a perfectly acceptable movie that people refused to talk about without bringing into the conversation the fact that it was the first female-led superhero movie in Hollywood history. I liked Wonder Woman, but I got into a lot of arguments about its quality, because objectively speaking, the final 20 minutes of that movie are garbage. Patty Jenkins made a great movie for about 70 per cent of Wonder Woman's run. But then she lost her vision in that final 30 per cent and what should have gone down in history as a truly masterful effort in filmmaking was reduced to a relatively average film experience. And I cannot tell you how many people I encountered online who simply refused to accept that Wonder Woman had any flaws; not because they believed in the quality of the movie but, rather, the 'importance' of the movie. Somehow that elevated it to a place where you could not criticize it without attracting criticism. I do not think Black Panther has completely crossed into that territory. Black Panther is a far more solid movie than Wonder Woman. It legitimately deserves the excitement it has generated. The action is great. The villains are sympathetic and the heroes have compelling arcs, and that is not even taking into account the authentic African sensibility it captured. However, I have found that most people cannot discuss Black Panther for two minutes without talking about how important it has been to black people. This is not a subject I would have raised if people did not repeatedly bring the race issue into Black Panther discussions. So, I cannot help but wonder; is this movie successful because it is actually that good, or are people letting the issue of race bias them into loving the film? In fact I am tempted to believe Black Panther might have been far less successful had its lead characters been several shades lighter.