SWAKOPMUND'S The Dome was filled to the brim as the audience watched winners being revealed at the biggest night in Namibian music - the Namibian Annual Music Awards - on Saturday night. Featuring hosts Odile Gertze, Mavis Braga, Esperance Luvindao, El-Shaddai Aluteni, Tanya Daringo and Paul Da Prince with a surprise appearance by South African stars Lungile Radu and Minnie Dlamini-Jones, it was a sparkling affair which saw female Namibian artists scoop award after award. With anticipation running high after losing out on the best duo/group and best Afro pop (inclusive of township disco) awards, 'Warakata' hitmakers One Blood took home the best song of the year award to the delight of the audience, despite the mellow atmosphere that marked the night. But it was Gazza who once again grabbed attention after denouncing artists who were against him in what he described as a "controversial award". Not long ago, Gazza was under scrutiny after receiving two nominations in the best video category for 'Up, Up Away' and 'Abangani Bako'. The latter was removed and replaced with Sally Boss Madam's 'What You Say'. After winning the category, Gazza said he wasn't concerned about those attempting to bring him down, but instead, he would continue making music "for the people". Bullet ya Kaoko provided one of the standout performances of the night, with a stunning set featuring a child, nicknamed 'Baby Bullet' by Twitter user @bubbs07, who stole the spotlight after showing off some impressive moves. Lifetime achievers Siegfried 'Ou Jomo' Haoseb and Sebulon 'Axue' Gomachab took viewers back to pre-independence days with an energetic live show as well, proving that good music will never die. The performance was positively received on social media. South African gqom group Distruction Boyz showed up and showed out, executing a live rendition of their house hit 'Omunye', bringing a different kind of flavour to the stage. And in a surprise move, Babes Wodumo took over the show in a purple hair-do and sparkling get-up, while dancing like there was no tomorrow. After a hiatus, Cool Under Pressure returned to the music industry in style with their hit song 'Pangaman' featuring Mavis Braga and Sam-E Lee Jones - and walked out victorious with the best house award. For the second time in a row, Jones defeated other beat-makers by taking home the best producer award. Best female of the year winner Sally Boss Madam was delighted by her win and encouraged women to keep making music. "If you love it, keep doing it. Put in what you have, even if it's small; we appreciate it," she said. "You are all needed. I believe this industry will be very big in the future." This year, Kalux elevated his status after taking home the coveted best male of the year award for 'Tuhafeni' after winning the best newcomer award in 2015. Speaking on the presence of women in the show, host Paul Da Prince welcomed the change rather than the standard male and female host pairing. "It was something different, he said. "I'm so used to two nights, but I'm glad we're back at Swakopmund. You need height and space for this kind of show, so it worked. I also love the variety of the dancers and women were basically running the whole show." He added that the last time he saw women work in unity as presenters was during the MTV Africa Music Awards in 2016 when Bonang Matheba was the host. "Women can do it and today, the power showed. I also think the artists deserved all the awards. I'm so happy One Blood won song of the year. The song may be old but it wasn't about that. It was about the radio play. And 'Warakata' was one of the most played songs of 2017. Big ups to them!" Satisfied corporate communications manager at MTC John Ekongo said "the efforts were worthwhile".