After signing a partnership agreement with the Japanese Government on the rehabilitation of an emergency ward for adults and survivals of sexual violence in N'djili Reference Hospital on 19th February, Ms. Jeanine Mabunda, Personal Representative of the Head of State, visited Wednesday, 28th March 2018, the above-mentioned Hospital to see for herself the rehabilitation work that is being effectively done on this ward. The work did start, she highlighted. She took the opportunity to visit for the second time the small ward that continues to receive survivals of sexual violence where, unfortunately, on a number of occasions, two persons are obliged to share one bed. Moreover, she met the needs of some of the in-patients, especially the poorest, held for several months at the hospital for being unable to pay the hospital bills which amounted to CDF 300,000 per patient, based on the reports submitted to her. "She deserves our gratitude for contributing to decongesting the emergency ward which also provides for a space for survivals of sexual violence. Once the rehabilitation work completed, N'djili Reference hospital will be able to receive more patients and victims of sexual violence and provide them appropriate treatment. The Office of the Personal Representative of the Head of State disbursed CDF 3 200 000 (US$ 2,000) to assist a dozen patients at the N'djili Reference Hospital. On 13th April 2018, Ms. Jeanine Mabunda, Personal Representative of the Head of State, flied to the rescue of a dozen patients held at the N'djili Reference Hospital due to unpaid bills, including victims of sexual violence. An amount of CDF 3 200 000 (US$ 2,000) was disbursed to pay their overdue bills. It was the 3rd visit made by Ms. Jeanine Mabunda to the Hospital on 28th March to monitor the rehabilitation work on the emergency ward for adults and survivals of sexual violence initiated by her. Approached for assistance by victims of sexual violence who could not pay their bills, she heeded their call. The recipients expressed their gratitude to the Head of State and to the Office of the Personal Representative for the generous gesture to get them released by the Hospital after being held for more than 45 days.