The Lagos State Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) has approved the trial of Peter Nielsen, a Danish who allegedly killed his wife, Zainab, and his three-year-old daughter, Petra. Chief Magistrate, Mrs. Kikelomo Ayeye, of Yaba Chief Magistrate Court, made this known yesterday while reading in open court the advice issued by the DPP on the alleged crime of the Denmark citizen. Chief Magistrate Ayeye also granted further remand of the defendant for another 30 days to enable the police and the Lagos State Government file murder charges against him before a High Court in the state. Nielsen was brought before the court on April 11, by the legal department of the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID), Panti-Yaba, Lagos, for alleged killing of his wife and daughter. After the charge was read to him, the court ordered that he should be remanded in prison pending the issuance of an advice by the DPP on the matter. Parts of DPP's advice read: "I'm directed to acknowledge receipt of your letter with reference No. CB/3514/LSX/01/Vol.5/11, dated 14 April, 2018, the accompanying duplicate case file forwarded to this office for legal advice. "After carefully considering the facts available in the duplicate case file, this office is of the considered opinion that a prima facie case of murder contrary to section 233 of the criminal law Ch. C17, Vol. 3, Laws of Lagos State, 2015, exists against the suspect Page B1, Peter Nielsen. "This office shall therefore prosecute the suspect Page B1, Peter Nielsen, for the murder of Zainab Nielsen, and Patra Nielsen, of offence contrary to Section 223, of the Criminal laws Ch. C17, Vol. 3, laws of Lagos state, 2015." The matter has been adjourned till June 28, for his possible arraignment at the state High Court. In the remand application filed before the court by the police Prosecutor, Mr. Effiong Asuquo, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), the 53 years old defendant was alleged to have killed both his 37-year-old wife and three years old daughter, at their residence situated at Block 4 Flat 17 Bella Vista Tower, Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos, on April 8. The offence according to Asuquo, is contrary to and punishable under section 223 of the criminal laws of Lagos State of Nigeria, 2015.