WHEN the General Data Protection Regulation comes into effect on May 25th, financial services firms will face a new potential threat to the iron-going challenges with building strong customer relationships. The regulation - dubbed GDPR for short - is aimed at giving European citizens control back over their personal data. Any firm that creates, stores, manages or transfers personal information of an EU citizen can be held liable under the new regulation. Non-compliance is not an option: the fines are steep, with a maximum penalty of €20 million - or nearly R300 million - for transgressors. GDPR marks a step toward improved individual rights over large corporates and states that prevents the latter from using and abusing personal information at their discretion. Considering the prevailing trust deficit - one global EY survey http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ey-trust-without-it-youre-just-another-bank/$FILE/ey-trust-without-it-youre-just-another-bank.pdf found that 60 percent of global consumers worry about hacking of bank accounts or bank cards, and 58 percent worry about the amount of personal and private data organisations have about them - the new regulation comes at an opportune time. But it is almost certain to cause disruption to normal business practices when implemented, and therein lies both a threat and an opportunity. The fundamentals of trust GDPR is set to tamper with two fundamental factors that can have a detrimental effect on the implicit trust between financial services providers and their customers: firstly, customers will suddenly be challenged to validate that what they thought companies were already doing - storing and managing their personal data in a manner that is respectful of their privacy - is actually happening. Secondly, the outbreak of stories relating to companies mistreating customer data or exposing customers due to security breaches will increase the chances that customers now seek tangible reassurance from their providers that their data is stored correctly. The recent news of Facebook's indiscriminate sharing of 50 million of its members' personal data to an outside firm has not only led to public outcry but could cost the company $2 trillion in fines should the Federal Trade Commission choose to pursue the matter to its fullest extent. The matter of trust also extends beyond personal data: in EY's 2016 Global Consumer Banking Survey, less than a third of Respondents http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ey-trust-without-it-youre-just-another-bank/$FILE/ey-trust-without-it-youre-just-another-bank.pdf had complete trust that their banks were being transparent about fees and charges. This is forcing companies to reconsider their role in building and maintaining trust with its customers. In any customer relationship, much is done based on implicit trust. A personal banking customer will enjoy a measure of familiarity that often provides them with some latitude - for example when applying for access to a new service or an overdraft facility - that can save them a lot of time and energy. Under GDPR and South Africa's POPI act, this process is drastically complicated: banks may now be obliged to obtain permission to share customer data between different business units (for example because they are part of different legal entities and have not expressly received permission). A customer may now allow banks to use their personal data in risk scoring models, but prevent them from determining whether they qualify for private banking services. What used to happen naturally within standard banking processes may be suddenly constrained by regulation, directly affecting the bank's relationship with its customers, as well as its ability to upsell to existing customers. The risk of compliance Are we moving to an overly bureaucratic world where even the simplest action is subject to a string of onerous processes? Compliance officers are already embedded within every function in a typical financial services institution, as well as at management level. Often the reporting of risk processes sits outside formal line functions and end up going straight to the board. This can have a stifling effect on innovation, with potentially negative consequences for customer service. A typical banking environment is already creaking under the weight of close to 100 acts, which makes it difficult to take the calculated risks needed to develop and launch innovative new banking products. Entire new industries could now emerge, focusing purely on the matter of compliance and associated litigation. GDPR already requires the services of Data Protection Officers, but the growing complexity of regulatory compliance could add a swathe of new job functions and disciplines. None of this points to the type of innovation that the modern titans of business are renowned for. A three-step plan of action So how must banks and other financial services firms respond? I would argue there are three main elements to successfully navigating the immediate impact of the new regulations: Firstly, ensuring that the technologies you use to secure, manage and store personal data is sufficiently robust. Modern financial services providers have a wealth of customer data at their disposal, including unstructured data from non-traditional sources such as social media. The tools they use to process and safeguard this data needs to be able to withstand the threats posed by potential data breaches and malicious attacks. Secondly, rethinking the core organisational processes governing their interactions with customers. This includes the internal measures for setting terms and conditions, how customers are informed of their intention to use their data, and how risk is assessed. A customer applying for medical insurance will disclose deeply personal information about themselves to the insurance provider: it is imperative the insurer provides reassurance that the customer's data will be treated respectfully and with discretion and with their express permission. Thirdly, financial services firms need to define a core set of principles for how they treat customers and what constitutes fair treatment. This should be an extension of a broader organisational focus on treating customers fairly, and can go some way to repairing the trust deficit between the financial services industry and the customers they serve. DARREL ORSMOND Financial Services Industry Head at SAP Africa