Heavy rains disrupted Labour Day celebrations in Mombasa attracting a handful of workers who turned up at the Tononoka grounds. The celebrations presided over by County Commissioner Evans Achoki, was marked by empty seats as most residents skipped the event. In contrast to last year's event, the Tuesday event was largely attended by Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) officials and a handful of national and county government officials. Speaking during the function, Kenya County Government Workers Union Secretary-Ggeneral Haji Mwinyi put on notice rogue employers flouting labour laws. Mr Mwinyi warned that legal actions will be taken against such employers should they continue to contravene the set laws. Labour laws must be followed to the letter so that employees' welfare can be catered for accordingly, days of rogue employers are long gone," he said Cotu chairman Mombasa branch Tamre Kizito said huge percentage of employers have not enrolled their employees to trade unions. "Enrolment to trade unions in the county remains at 60 per cent, employers are failing to honour workers' rights to join trade unions, remittance to trade unions is very low because most employees are not registered in unions," he said. Mr Kizito called upon the two levels of governments to help deal with such proprietors so as to ensure all workers are registered in trade unions. County Secretary Francis Thoya who represented Governor Hassan Joho said the county will put measures to ensure that working conditions are improved "We will work together to ensure workers' rights are respected and their working conditions improved," he said Mr Achoki assured residents of their security at their work places of work saying security had been heightened across the county. "We have put up measures to ensure there is adequate security so that employees and town dwellers operate in a secure environment," he said He at the same time urged the youth across the county to enroll in training institutions and acquire skills so they can fit in the job market. "You must prepare yourself for the job that you are looking for, most youth are complaining that there are no jobs and yet they have not taking it upon themselves to acquire skills necessary to get those jobs," he said Mr Achoki assured that he is working closely with relevant bodies to ensure that rights of employees are respected at their place of work. The function was also attended by Mombasa County Woman Rep Asha Hussein Mohammed, who asked employers to create a special room in their organizations for lactating mothers to breast feed their children.