Corporate Council on Africa (CCA) and the U.S. Africa Business Center (USABC) convened a high-level U.S. business delegation meeting with H.E. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at Blair House. Senior executives of AGCO, Boeing, Chevron, GE, Lockheed Martin and Procter and Gamble, joined by Florie Liser, CCA President and CEO, and Scott Eisner, President of USABC, discussed U.S.-Nigeria business opportunities and ways to promote greater U.S.-Nigeria trade and investment. Participants discussed investments and existing and potential projects in a range of sectors of vital interest to Nigeria, including agriculture, aviation, security, infrastructure, and manufacturing, as well as the policies needed to facilitate business and incentivize further investment in those sectors. This meeting followed the White House meeting of President Buhari with President Trump – the second only such meeting with an African Head of State during the Trump presidency.  During a joint press conference at the White House, President Trump shared the administration’s vision regarding trade and investment between the U.S. and Nigeria. “I’m pleased that Nigeria is one of our largest trading partners in the region, and we look forward to growing our trade relationship based on the principle of fairness and reciprocity” President Buhari expressed his desire for increased U.S. investment in the Nigerian economy, especially in the non-oil sector. “Our aim is to diversify our own economy by focusing on agriculture and food security; power and infrastructure.” “Nigeria’s trade volume with the United States stood at $6.07 billion, according to 2016 statistics, and comprised $4.176 billion worth of Nigerian exports to the U.S., and $1.894 billion U.S. exports to Nigeria. We urge greater effort to increase these figures substantially.” CCA, the leading U.S. business association focused solely on enhancing U.S.-Africa business relations, remains dedicated to promoting trade, investment and business engagement between the U.S and African nations, including Nigeria. About 15 percent of CCA member companies are African, and Nigerian firms make up almost 50 percent of that number. CCA also has a satellite office in Abuja, which is led by Mr. Ekenem Isichei, Director for West Africa. About Corporate Council on Africa (CCA) Corporate Council on Africa is the leading U.S. business association focused solely on connecting business interests between the United States and Africa. CCA uniquely represents a broad cross section of member companies from small and medium size businesses to multinationals as well as U.S. and African firms. Learn more at www.corporatecouncilonafrica.com Media Contact: Olaotan Awoyomi oawoyomi@corporatecouncilonafrica.com 202-263-3531