A book written by former Member of Parliament and journalist Joe Khamisi on elite corruption in the country has caused a storm online. The book titled, 'Kenya: Looters and Grabbers, 54 years of corruption and plunder by the elite', is reported to have been rejected by local bookshops due to its controversial content. During the month of May only a Special Price of KShs 3,000/-. Go to our Online Bookshop at http:https://t.co/99WNdn3uxV, order your copy and have it delivered in Nairobi within hours or 72 hours in counties. pic.twitter.com/NMdlNyaAnb - Joe Khamisi (@joekhamisi1) May 3, 2018 Pirated soft copies of the book have been circulating on social media platforms. The book's author on Monday sounded an alarm on the distribution the contraband PDF's of the book. "Andrew Akeye got one of the contraband PDFs of #LootersandGrabbers. An honest man, he has refunded me the full cost of the hard copy without asking for anything else. Not all Kenyans are dishonest," tweeted Joe Khamis. This aroused mixed reactions from the online community with most Kenyans on Twitter expressing rage. I got one, I downloaded, I haven't read and I won't read, I have deleted it so that I get a hardcopy in support of your work. -- SamSam (@Soitas) May 7, 2018 I am not into reading soft copies. Where can I buy a hard copy of the book in Nairobi? -- Kipkemboi Cherono (@KipkemboiCh) May 7, 2018 Not from a physical bookshop. You have to go to our Online bookstore at http://jodeybooks, order and pay by mpesa and the book will be delivered. Joe -- Joe Khamisi (@joekhamisi1) May 7, 2018 The irony of illegally sharing about stealing from Kenyans 😒 https://t.co/EVZn274MI8 - Ory Okolloh Mwangi (@kenyanpundit) May 7, 2018 If you feel it is too expensive and doesn't add value, then simply don't read it, certainly not a PDF copy - Joy Inc 🇰🇪 (@JoyWangechiK) May 7, 2018 This is the battle I lost. A lot of people came back to me with "At least they are reading your work." People don't know what it means to wait for six years for your manuscript to be published, only for it to be released for free. https://t.co/CEEQlgRAr7 - Kinyanjui Kombani (@KKombani) May 7, 2018 I am blocking anyone on whats app sending it/ and deleting it. If i cant buy it, I aint reading it on pdf at all. -- Captain Ozwald (❤️) (@VinieO) May 7, 2018 I enjoy reading pdf books whoever has any interesting book can send it to me. ..Education is human right ..I need to educate myself -- Daud Ahmed (@MsamariaMwema20) May 7, 2018