Learning has been disrupted in more than 10 public schools in Lamu County after heavy rains destroyed classrooms and toilets. Among those affected are Jericho, Pangani, Chalaluma, Dide Waride, Moa and Nagele primary schools in Mpeketoni and Witu divisions. Lamu West sub-County education officer, Mr Josphat Ngumi, said Witu Town Mixed Secondary School has also been affected. CLASSROOMS Speaking to Nation on Wednesday, Mr Ngumi said more than 300 pupils of Jericho Primary School in Mpeketoni have been forced to stay at home after five classrooms collapsed this week due to flooding. He said a three-door toilet block at the Witu Town Mixed Secondary School caved in on Tuesday and male students now have to share toilets with the teachers. The situation is the same at the Chalaluma Primary School where over 300 pupils remained at home with the learning institution submerged after Tana and Nyongoro rivers flooded. At Dide Waride Primary School, at least 310 pupils have to through water to access their classrooms. More than 280 pupils of Nagele Primary School also haven't reopened after their compound was turned into a temporary rescue centre for flood victims in the region. WITU Mr Ngumi asked the government and well-wishers to intervene and renovate the various schools that have been affected by floods. He said schools in Witu Division are the worst hit flooding in the entire county. "There is need for timely intervention so that the buildings which collapsed in the affected schools can be rebuilt and those surrounded by floods can be accessed by pupils otherwise learning will be a challenge here," said Mr Ngumi. BONI In Lamu East sub-County, pupils from the terror-prone Basuba Ward are unable to resume learning at the Arid Zone Primary School. The pupils from Basuba, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani and Kiangwe villages which border the Boni Forest now have to wait for interventions or until the flooding ends before they can finally venture back to their learning centres. The learning centres in Mokowe and Kiunga, which are located hundreds of kilometers from Basuba Ward, were established four years ago to enable the students continue learning without interruptions from the Al-Shabaab militia. Basuba Ward MCA Deko Barissa said the pupils from Basuba are unable to do so due to the floods and heavy rains that continue to pound the area. "We are appealing to the government to intervene just like they are doing elsewhere and help us move these children to the learning centres otherwise they will miss school. Let them bring choppers for that purpose," said Basuba Ward MCA, Deko Barissa.