Kenyans mark Labour Day on Tuesday against a background of worrying trends in the job market attributed to economic stagnation, political turbulence and restrictive legislation. For most of last year, the country went through a tumultuous political environment that badly affected business and occasioned job cuts, wiping out economic gains. Economic performance declined with the growth rate slowing to 4.9 per cent, the lowest in several years. All these have come to bear on wealth creation and job opportunities. Many organisations, among them banks and insurance companies, laid off workers to contain surging wage bills and there are no indications that things are likely to improve any time soon. INDUSTRIAL UNREST Quite troubling are the widespread cases of industrial unrest that have shaken the labour market in recent times. Last year, doctors and teachers went on strike for several months to press for improved pay. Lecturers of public universities are on strike, which has gone on for about two months and, with the look of things, is likely to last for far too long. Persistent workers' strikes are not good for the economy; neither are they for industrial relations. At this point in time, there is an active debate about proposals to change the Labour Relations Act with some provisions seeking to take away workers' right to go on strike -- itself a violation of the Constitution, which protects the right to withdraw labour. LABOUR ISSUES Already, this has put the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) and the Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) on the warpath with Parliament and portends to poison the relations between workers and the government. The celebrations should move beyond the routine shows and parades to provide a platform for reflections on labour issues with a view to resolving the endemic challenges. Focus should shift from the minimum wage, which has to be addressed anyway, to tackling socio-economic, legal and political issues in labour relations. For a start, the government has to drop the proposed changes to the labour law and allow for consultation instead of opening a new front for aggression.