Kampala — The National Drug Authority (NDA) has closed 14 more pharmacies countrywide for operating without 2018 licences. The closure follows a story Daily Monitor published last week that more than 107 pharmacies were operating without licences despite NDA closing Friecca in Wandegeya, a Kampala suburb, and other four pharmacies. "NDA has in the past few days closed several pharmacies for operating with valid 2018 licences issued by the authority, contrary to section 14 of the National Drug Policy and Authority Act," a statement issued by NDA indicated yesterday. In a statement issued last week, the drugs' body indicated that it had closed Friecca for operating without a licence but could not explain why some other illegal pharmacies had remained open. However, NDA's executive secretary, Ms Donna Kusemererwa, yesterday said the pharmacy resumed operations last week after NDA renewed its licence through an online licensing system known as NDAMIS. Deadlines According to NDA, the licensing period for this year started last December with a deadline of January 31, but it was later extended to March 30. Ms Kusemererwa said the process of cracking down on illegal pharmacies is still work in progress as the authority implements its mandate of ensuring pharmacies have safe and efficacious drugs, proper storage facilities and supervising pharmacists. "This is an ongoing process; the closed pharmacies will be re-opened as soon as they each acquire a 2018 NDA-issued licence. In case you find any of these pharmacies open, please ask them to present their 2018 licence or else report them to NDA or the nearest police station," the statement adds. Ms Kusemererwa said Ride out Pharmacy in Nalukolongo, Kampala was closed for operating without a pharmacist, a licence and unauthorised change of name to Elton. Closed Pharmacies Mediva Pharmacy,Mutungo Bina, Kampala Glory Pharmacy, Mbale Avion Pharmacy, Kirombe Kevad Pharmacy, Kitintale Wellness Pharmacy, Mubende Tash Pharma Pharmacy, Mbuya Western Pharmacy, Kabwohe Salient Pharmacy, Buloba Ride Out (Elton), Nalukolongo, Kampala Pulse Pharmacy, Hoima Greenfeild Pharmacy, Kigumba Previous Pharmacy, Mubende Kisuki Pharmacy, Bundibugyo Safe Script Pharmacy, Mbale