Johannesburg — MASSTORES, Northam Platinum and Shoprite Group of Companies have emerged the main winners at the SAP Quality Awards. Held in Johannesburg, the awards recognise some of Africa's leading enterprises who have implemented successful digital transformation initiatives, built on SAP technologies. Masstores (T/A Game and Dion) won gold in the Innovation category while the Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed platinum producer won gold in the Fast Delivery category. Shoprite emerged tops in the Business Transformation category. Other winners in the Innovation category were Anglo Operations Proprietary Limited (silver), Commercial Bank of Africa (bronze) while Italtile Limited was a finalist. In the Fast Delivery category, Jamii Telecommunications Ltd (silver), Movit Products Ltd (bronze) were the other winners and Co-Operative Bank of Kenya a finalist. The Business Transformation category had West African Cotton (WACOT) win silver, Nigeria's Ondo State Government clinch bronze and Kenya Revenue Authority the finalist. Nazia Pillay, Head of Active Quality Management for Africa at SAP Africa, said the calibre of this year's entries were exceptional. Pillay said an independent internal and external panel of judges selected winners after they met the most rigorous quality standards. "Once again, the calibre of entries exceeded global standards, pointing to a bright future of Africa as it prepares for a future at the forefront of the digital economy," Pillay added. The SAP Quality Awards were introduced in 2005. Projects from East, West and Southern Africa were nominated for the prestigious awards. Each of the entries were judged according to SAP's ten principles of quality, which demand that each implementation is anchored in business value, that it is achieving business readiness, and that companies are using organisational change management to transform their business. "We are excited to see how the winning implementations make a positive impact in the African business and consumer landscape in the year ahead," Pillay said. Cathy Smith, Managing Director of SAP Africa, said the company supported Africa's business and public-sector leaders by providing solutions that fuel innovation, foster equality, and enable opportunities across borders and cultures. "We are hugely encouraged by our customers' efforts to drive digital transformation across the continent and look forward to continuing our support by providing the technology tools that enable the best run African businesses and governments," Smith said. SAP is the market leader in enterprise application software.