Oyam — Residents of Adyeda Village, Loro Sub-county in Oyam District have asked the UPDF 4th Division to remove a military post from their land. The UPDF established the military post on a 3sqkm land owned by Adyeda Cooperative Society in 1991 to counter insecurity at the height of the Lord's Resistance Army rebellion in Acholi Sub-region. Residents claim the presence of the military facility in their village has denied them opportunities to utilise their land for agricultural activities. Mr Johnson Engole, the Adyeda Cooperative Society chairman, alleged that soldiers deployed at the military outpost have been torturing locals instead of protecting them. He made the allegations during a meeting held on Friday last week at Loro Army Primary School in Oyam District between army officials from the 4th Division headquarters and locals. He added that several locals had been beaten by soldiers in the past on allegations of trespassing on the military base. Mr Engole cited a one Francis Odongo, a resident of Barmwony Village in Adyeda Parish who was recently tortured by soldiers for allegedly moving on a community road that passes through the army base beyond 9pm. Mr Robert Ekwaro, the Loro Sub-county LC3 chairman, told Daily Monitor that the soldiers had vandalised the society store and other farm machinery that was being kept in the stores. "The soldiers in the area are giving us losses, they have failed to live in harmony with our people. Therefore, we don't want them here since there is no more insecurity in this place," Mr Ekwaro said. He alleged that last week the soldiers blocked the upgrade of a community road that ran through the barracks to Acanpii Village. During the meeting, residents unanimously resolved that Loro Army Primary School be renamed immediately and that soldiers should vacate the land since they want to revamp the society's farming activities. Allegations denied However, when contacted, the 4th Division spokesperson, Maj Telesphor Turyamumanya, said the UPDF will not leave the land. He also dismissed claims by residents that soldiers were beating or intimidating them, saying their role is to protect residents. "We are instead engaging the land owners into negotiations so that we can compensate them formally because our presence there is still very paramount," Maj Turyamumanya said. Last week, the State minister for Defence, Col Charles Okello Engola, warned local government leaders against rallying community members to reject security installations.