In line with the commemoration of the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi, the Embassy of Rwanda in Switzerland has launched an education programme targeting the youth and focusing on the history of the Genocide against the Tutsi. According to a statement signed by the Amb. François Xavier Ngarambe, one of the main objectives of the programme is to keep alive the memory of Genocide by creating a link between the past, the present and the future. During the event, held in Geneva, Ngarambe interacted with several youths, all of them students aged between 18 and 20, and made a presentation on the history of Rwanda before, during and after the colonial times. Explaining the origins of the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi, Ngarambe said it has its roots in the colonial segregationist ideology which he said was meticulously entrenched and was a major infrastructure for the Genocide against the Tutsi in which over a million people were killed. "Educating the young generation on genocide is the best way to prepare them for their future responsibility as the leaders of tomorrow, to prevent and fight against genocide and all other forms of mass atrocities and violation of human rights," the statement reads in part. The envoy also discussed the aftermath of the Genocide and the importance of preservation of memory. He ended his presentation by introducing the new Rwanda to students touching on a range of socio-political and economic aspects, including justice, peace and security, political stability, good governance, health, education, and doing business in Rwanda, among many others. The highly interactive discussion did not only attract students, but also their lecturers. "Most of the recurring questions from students were about reasons why the international community abandoned Rwanda during the Genocide; the origins of divisions among Rwandans; factors behind successful reconciliation; and how other countries can learn from Rwanda on peace, stability and development after conflict," adds the statement. This programme, which is still ongoing, is being implemented in partnership with key stakeholders including United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) as well as the EDUKI Foundation, a Geneva centre for education and awareness in international cooperation for the youth community. The programme has received support from different Geneva-based schools, including the International School of Geneva, Webster University and the Graduate Institute for International and Development Studies.