Economic planning minister Obeth Kandjoze and the outgoing United Nations resident coordinator in Namibia, Kiki Gbeho, launched the United Nations Partnership Framework 2019-2023 last Friday. Under the theme "A Partnership for Eradication of Poverty and Increased Equality", the framework provides an overview of the United Nations system's engagement and functions in Namibia for the period 2019-2023. Through this framework, the UN system will support the government to achieve national and international development agendas. Highlighting the linkage between the new framework and Namibia's development agenda, Kandjoze said: "Our new partnership is fully aligned to Namibia's needs and aspirations as expressed in our national development plans and policies such as Vision 2030, the fifth National Development Plan (NDP5), the Harambee Prosperity Plan, the Blue Print for Wealth Redistribution and Poverty Eradication and also to the Global Agenda 2030 and the continents' Agenda 2063, which as a country, we have fully taken-up as our very own." Aligned with NDP5, the United Nations Partnership Framework (UNPAF) 2019-2023 contributes to four main results areas: economic progression, social transformation, environmental sustainability and good governance. The UNPAF 2019-2023 was developed through an intricate and long process to ensure that it is aligned to the shifting development dynamics in Namibia. This included a mid-term review of the previous UNPAF 2014-2018, in 2016, a Common Country Assessment in 2017, and a Joint Partnership and Resource Mobilisation Strategy in 2017. The framework's outcomes and the UN's interventions towards achieving Namibia's long-term Vision 2030 objectives, were determined through a strategic prioritisation process. The government and the UN consulted the private sector, academia, civil society, young people as well as bilateral and multilateral partners throughout the process. Expressing delight with the extensive consultations that were done for the development of the UNPAF, Kandjoze said: "This ties in well with the adage that finds its meaning in NDP5 that 'if you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, go with the people'. This is the emphasis and importance we put on our people within the spirit of the Harambee and the sustainable development goals (SDGs), 'leave no one behind'." With the recent classification of Namibia as an upper middle-income country, the UN's engagement with Namibia has shifted from one based on development assistance to one of development partnership, meaning that in addition to programming, the UN has shifted to providing technical expertise and building government's capacity to deliver services, rather than taking the lead on implementing programmes. Specifically, through the framework, the UN will focus on developing capacities of national institutions, fostering multi-disciplinary approaches to development, strengthening knowledge generation and management, as well as providing technical expertise, policy analysis and advisory support. UN agencies, which are not based in Namibia, but are supporting programmes and projects, can also be found in the framework and are fully aligned to Namibia's agenda. "Winning the 'war on poverty' and reaching our 'last mile challenge' will require a tremendous amount of hard work by all of us. Harambee will have to be a verb and not a noun. On my last day as the resident coordinator in Namibia, I am excited about the framework we are launching today. It recognises the challenges and builds on Namibia's solid development foundation towards ensuring that no one feels left out," Gbeho stated. The implementation of UNPAF 2019-2023 will commence in 2019, following the completion of UNPAF 2014-2018.