Kenya's international basketball player Linet Atieno Juma has emerged the top student during 2018 Texas University College graduation ceremony at the weekend, further demonstrating that athletes can pursue sports and academics simultaneously and excel. The former Shimba Hills netball and basketball player scored a GPA of 4.0 to finish top of her class following the completion of her two-year basketball scholarship in USA. The 22-year-old, who was part of the 2012 Kenyan team to the Afro Basket Africa Junior Championships in Dakar, also helped her former school Shimba Hills win back-to-back national and regional basketball titles between 2010 and 2013. She became the first Texas college basketball player to register 1,000 career rebounds and career points in the National Athletics Intercollegiate Association (NAIA) games during her time at the college. She led the team to a number of honours in the last two years. Her former classmate at Shimba Hills Taudencia Katumbi with whom they went to USA in 2015 through the help of former Kenya internationals Alice Onono and Sophie Mohammed, graduates from Abilene Christian College on Saturday. "When I was joining Shimba Hills in 2010, I didn't know about basketball because my specialty was netball, but I slowly got interested in basketball and this is how far the sport has taken me," Juma told Nation Sport. Her achievements drew congratulatory messages from a number of secondary school heads in Coast, among them Shimba Hills Principal Salim Kitauro who said Juma's achievements would motivate other players to work even harder. Kitauro's predecessor Robert Aran who admitted Juma to Shimba Hills in 2010, and the teacher in charge of basketball at the school at the time, Stanslaus Barasa Mangeni , both said they were not surprised to learn that their former student had beaten everybody in her class. Others who sent congratulatory messages to the basketball player are Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association chairman Peter Orero, former Coast Schools Sports Association chairman Rodgers Mwafungo and Mwakitawa School principal Leonorah Ameny. Juma, from Siaya County, briefly played for Co-operative Bank of Kenya in the Kenya Basketball federation women's premier League.