Securico, one of Zimbabwe's fast growing security companies, has set targets to employ about 80 000 personnel across Africa as it moves to spread its tentacles and increase its footprint. Company founder Divine Ndhlukula told the businessdigest in Bulawayo last week the company was making forays into the regional market. "We want to expand from being solely a Zimbabwean security services company into being an African giant. We've been looking at expansion since we started off and that has been the bigger plan throughout our journey to this day," said Ndhlukula. Securico, established in 1998, currently employs 3 400 employees across its operations in Zimbabwe. "We started with no-one. At the moment, we employ about 3 400 people. In terms of the outlook, we are looking at consolidating our operations in Zimbabwe and expanding as well. We are getting into other jurisdictions outside Zimbabwe. "For instance, we have a situation where Zambia is opening up and we are looking at expanding there. "We are hopeful that next year there are going to be new operations that are going to be opening up. If more mines open up, it means those in the services sector will get more opportunities," she said. Ndhlukula added: "We would want to get to 15 000 employees, hopefully by next year given that there are projections that our economic situation might improve economically. If we consolidate the regional projections and that of Zimbabwe, we envision ourselves with about 80 000 people across Africa and that is not an easy feat to achieve." The multi-award winning businesswoman said her company's services had given them an edge in a competitive field. She highlighted Securico had transformed the security industry over the years and would continue working hard to offer better services. "We have always had a competitive edge over other players because we offer service that no other competitor can match. Our service is way ahead of others. We have transformed the security services sector by bringing in quality service that is second to none. "Our aim is to continue with the improvements in the working conditions of our employees because we believe a happy employee gives us a better return on investment. We will also continue striving to excel in the industry going forward," Ndhlukula said.