Kampala — The war between man and animal has erupted again, as it often does, in Queen Elizabeth National Park in western Uganda. The recent pile of 11 lion carcasses discovered by park rangers in the world bio-sphere reserve are shocking and the humans; mainly conservationists, are in tears. Poisoning is suspected and, in a place where animal-on-animal brutality is expected and normal-- such as the case of April 17 where a lion in the same park lost a battle and died-- the likelihood of a human hand in the killing of the lions has devastated animal lovers. "I broke down and I started crying." That is how Alex Braczkowski reacted to the news of the massacre. He told National Geographic that he had, for weeks, followed this pride, filmed it, and become emotionally attached to it. Braczkowski had been filming in Queen Elizabeth National Park (QENP) for a television show focusing on conservation and featuring their habit of climbing and hanging out in tree branches. Braczkowski told National Geographic that four other lions died by poisoning last year in the same park. He said if killings go on at the present rate, the park will be devoid of lions in five years. He was thousands of miles away, in the U.S. city of Las Vegas; preparing for a photography convention, when he heard the news. Although most lions do not climb trees; some of the lions in QENP have the gift of tree-climbing. This odd behaviour has drawn visitors to the park eager to watch big cat acrobatics. Geoffrey Baluku, a tourism consultant toldon April 19 that the death of the 11 lions is a "national disaster." Jimmy Kisembo, a conservationist who works as a lead ranger and lion monitor for the Uganda Wildlife Authority--the national agency in charge of protection of Uganda's wildlife-- and his team found the remains of the dead lions near Hamukungu fishing village on the northern fringes of the park in Kasese district. Hamukungu is one of four landing sites on Lake George. Kisembo described how all the members of his team cried on seeing the carcasses which had already been devoured by the hyenas. Tourists and the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) rangers had last seen these lions alive on the Easter weekend of March 31 and April 01. However, grimmer apprehension mounted when days later, the rangers spotted another pride; of two adult lionesses and seven cubs, near the same village. What will be their fate? David Duli, the executive director of the World Wildlife Fund for Nature-Uganda pointed out that the death of the lions came just weeks after they marked World Wildlife Day on March 3 in the same Kasese District. Duli recalled how, during the celebrations, President Yoweri Museveni had urged the pastoralist communities to stop poisoning the big cats, particularly the lions. "For this incident to happen just weeks is very sad and disappointing," he told The Independent on April 19. Duli told The Independent that lions are one of the most iconic wildlife species for Uganda's tourism sector because every tourist who comes to Uganda would like to see a lion. "Lions are not very easy to see; they are very solitary animals and they are territorial and they hunt at night. So to be associated with a lion is the best experience a tourist can get while on safari." "They are the kings of the jungle because wherever they are, there is order. That makes them very attractive." "They are also culturally important and that is why kings in Africa want to associate with them because they are a sign of courage, strength and dominion--something which is a very strong culture in Africa." "That is why when you see the threat they are facing because of the growing human-wildlife conflict, they could easily get extinct. So they must be protected at all costs." Living on the frontline At 1978 sq km, Oueen Elizabeth National Park is the biggest park in Uganda and attracts thousands of tourists every year. According to UWA estimates, it is home to about 120 lions. But it is geographically connected to the Virunga National Park in the Democratic Republic of Congo and earlier studies estimated that between them, they had a population of about 200 lions. Conservationists estimate that the two parks can support up to 900 lions if the lion prey are conserved to ensure ample food. For now, however, the lion population is declining fast; in the DR Congo because of poaching and in Uganda; because of food scarcity and retaliatory attacks such as the recent one. It is not for nothing that human settlements living next to wild animals in or near game parks are called "frontline communities" in the technical jargon of conservationists. It is recognition of the grim reality that man and beast are often at war here. Animal attacks, retaliatory human attacks, and poaching, are a sad reality. The people in these communities and conservationists understand that. And pressure mounts on UWA and the government to forge a sustainable co-existence that protects both humans and the animals. Bashir Hangi, UWA's communications officer told The Independent that members of the Hamukungu community appeared saddened by the lion deaths. But they also spoke about their fear of the lions and other wild animal attacks when the Minister of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities, Prof. Ephraim Kamuntu, spoke to them at a baraza on April 13. "One of the concerns raised by the community is that UWA rangers are not present in the communities and when the people come in contact with the wildlife, it takes time for UWA to respond," Hangi said. There are many human settlements within the park boundary. Some are legally established; including Hamukungu, Kasenyi, Katunguru, and Katwe-Kabatoro. But many are illegal havens of animal poachers. An April 2017 report on community-based crime prevention in the park noted that in villages adjacent to the boundaries of Queen Elizabeth National Park, over 40% of households are estimated to have hunted in the park for commercial purposes at least once in 2015. Such activity was not as a major threat to recovery of big mammals in the park. On the other hand, although residents of legal settlements are mainly engaged in fishing and salt trade, they also keep domestic animals like cattle, sheep, goats, cats and dogs, and grow crops which are threatened by attacks from wild animals. Ziwa Ranch, one of the top farms in the country located in Kimengo sub-county in Masindi District often loses cattle to wild animals. Queen Elizabeth National Park boasts three main water bodies; Lake George, Lake Edward and the Kazinga channel which connects them. The lakes have six landing sites between them; Hamukungu, Kahendero, Katunguru, and Kasenyi on Lake George and Katwe-Kabatoro and Kayanja are on the Ugandan side of Lake Edward which straddles the DR Congo. Over 20,000 people are said to depend on the fishing activity from Lake George and the Kazinga channel and another estimated 15,000 depend on the Ugandan side of Lake Edward. Lion and man tension The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists the African lion as vulnerable rather than endangered; meaning they are yet to be threatened with extinction. According to a study published in the journal 'Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences' in 2015, Africa has about 20,000 lions but the population is declining fast. The scientists from Oxford University said there is a 67% likelihood that the number of lions in Central and West Africa would drop by half within two decades. In East Africa where some populations like the lions in Serengeti National Park, have remained stable, the probability is 37%. In Uganda, according to a study published in the 'Journal of East African Natural History' titled "Home ranges of Ishasha lions: size and location in relation to habitat and prey availability," the home range of lions in Ishasha in Kanungu District, which is in QENP are quite small when compared to other parks. The lions in QENP have between 35 and 43 square kilometers to roam, compared to the 400 square kilometres that lions in places such as Serengeti National Park in Tanzania have. But lions are very adaptive animals. In Isasha, they form smaller prides; mainly because food is limited. The small prides, however, also mean that the QENP lions cannot hunt larger, more challenging prey. Although QENP has over 70 mammal species; including hippopotami, elephants, buffalo, and chimpanzees and monkeys, the lions in small prides cannot hunt them. They only depend on the Uganda kob and topis. But a robust trade in bush meat has also depleted the prey that the big cats depend on. As a result, the lions have taken to the grassland and wooded grassland because that is where their main prey species, the Ugandan kob, is found. It is also the section of the park that is most encroached on by humans for farming, commercial hunting, and poaching. In other words, it is the frontline in the war between humans and beast in QENP. In a major incident in late 2016, an elephant strayed from the park and destroyed cotton and maize gardens in Kihara village in Kasese town. When UWA was called in, the rangers fired volleys to scare the beast but it failed to return to the park. In the processes, however, two people were injured by stray bullets. In 2011, a group called Ikongo Farmers Marketing and Processing Cooperative Society, sued UWA in the High Court over alleged negligence that allows animals, especially elephants to move from the park and destroy their property. They lost the case, as UWA pleaded for the right of the animals. But as a policy to encourage area local governments to value wild life, the government ensures that 20% of revenue generated from collections to parks from tourists is distributed among districts that border the park. These include Kasese, Rubirizi, Kanungu, Ibanda, Mitooma, Rukungiri and Kamwenge districts. Kasese receives the most money because the park covers the biggest portion of it. Rubirizi follows. The two also have the largest human settlement adjacent to the park and are literally on the frontline in the fight between man and beast. Geoffrey Baluku, the tourism consultant says conservation is about co-existence; people living around these parks are supposed to benefit from the park's resources. When frontline communities start killing wildlife, then there is a problem.