Rubanda — Nyamweru Sub-county is largely a hilly area like many places in Kigezi Sub-region. It is a remote place by all standards. Hundreds of poor peasant farmers survive on growing Irish potatoes, cabbages and sorghum. The road infrastructure, health and education services are wanting. Bwindi Health Centre III, the main health facility in the area, is overwhelmed by patients, who always seek medical services. The health centre building in Kobusinde Village in Nyamweru Parish, also houses the Nyamweru Sub-county offices. Nyamweru was created in 2010 after being carved out of Bubaare Sub-county. However, it has never established its own home for the last seven years. All administration offices were established in the health facility building, constraining space for the health centre. The building was partitioned to create space for office of the LC3 chairperson, sub-county chief, cashier, community development officer and the health centre. The same building also houses Nyamweru Police Post and there are police cells where suspected criminals are detained. Challenges The officer-in-charge of the health centre, Mr John Emukulot, says lack of space is a very big challenge. He says the health facility receives about 50 patients every day and carries out 15 deliveries per month. "Congestion is our main challenge because the labour ward is just a small room with one ordinary bed instead of having a delivery bed. The room that was supposed to serve as a general ward now serves as the sub-county hall for council meetings," Mr Emukulot explains. "Other four rooms that were supposed to be occupied by specialised health workers such as laboratory technicians are now being used as offices for the sub-county chairperson, sub-county chief, cashier and the community development officer," he says. The outpatient department was partitioned using plywood to create a medical ward, waiting room for expectant mothers, a laboratory, antenatal, injection room and a reception. The facility has a clinical officer, a nursing officer, two nurses, two midwives, one nursing assistant, two laboratory technicians, one health inspector and two porters. Some health workers are accommodated in the kitchen meant for the officer-in-charge of the health facility. Shortage of water is another challenge because the gravity flow scheme that was connected directly to the health centre got spoilt two years ago. "Whereas we appreciate the efforts of the government and its partners in giving us solar lighting system and timely delivery of medicines, lack of accommodation for health workers, lack of means of transport for them to do community outreach programmes and lack of clean water at the facility remain outstanding problems," says Mr Emukulot. Congested The sub-county chairperson, Mr David Karindugu, says they don't enjoy working from a congested place. "You can imagine a structure that was designed to serve as a Health Centre II and later elevated to serve as Health Centre III without any additional building and now serving as sub-county headquarters accommodating the offices of the LC3 chairperson, sub-county chief, cashier, community development officer and police post. The situation is not good but we have no alternative until the sub-county headquarters block currently under construction is completed," explains Mr Karindugu. Ms Anett Maganisa, a resident of Nyamweru Trading Centre, says patients at the health centre have no privacy. "The sub-county headquarters should be relocated to another place so that the health workers can get enough space to properly serve the patients in the privacy they deserve," says Ms Maganisa. About Shs200 million is required for the completion of the block but Mr Kirindugu says it may take more years due to low local revenue. He also appealed to the central government to raise money for the rehabilitation of the health centre building because it has developed cracks. Coexistence The Rubanda District vice chairperson, Mr Silver Baguma, says the district leadership is aware of the challenge of congestion at the health facility but appealed for harmonious coexistence until a solution is got. "The district planning unit is working towards solving this problem and as district leaders, we feel that another land be acquired outside the health centre compound for sub county headquarters," says Mr Baguma. Mr Bagum says: " The construction going on in the health centre compound is just a temporary measure to house the sub county staff but we must buy a piece of land elsewhere and construct a permanent home for the sub-county." The Rubanda East MP, Mr Henry Musasizi, says government plans to construct administration blocks for all newly created sub-counties, including Nyamweru. Issues at hand The Nyamweru sub-county chairperson, Mr David Karindugu, says the building that was designed to serve as a health centre currently accommodates the offices of the LC3 chairperson, sub-county chief, cashier, community development officer and a police post.