Starehe Member of Parliament Charles Njagua Kanyi, popularly known as Jaguar, has had a chequered career, cutting a niche in the music industry before joining politics. Coming from a humble background, he started out as a matatu tout to make ends meet. Jaguar started gaining recognition as a musician in 2004, when he released the song, Utaweza Kweli. He later joined producers Ogopa Deejays, where he recorded one of his most popular songs, Kigeugeu. His other hits include Kioo, Kipepeo, and One Centimetre, among others. He says the Kenyan music scene has changed since his days as a musician. COMPETITION "During our time, we used to get money but things have changed. Then, a radio presenter would just be that -- a presenter, but these days presenters and deejays want to be stars, competing with musicians," he says. When he declared his interest in politics, he assured his fans that his music days were not yet over. And to prove a point, he recently released a song with rapper Prezzo titled Timika. "Even though I am an MP now, I will always be an artiste, because I believe in the power of art. And our country is blessed with immense talent. I am a musician at heart because it is my passion and talent," says Jaguar. PUSHING BILL In fact, he says that he is one of the people pushing for a Bill in Parliament that, if passed, will see a higher percentage of Kenyan music and content aired on mainstream media. "There is a Bill in Parliament, and I have been urging all artistes to sit down and agree on the issues they want challenged so that they can present them to us to take forward. But unity among artistes is also another thing," he said "We have youthful leaders in Parliament some of who have begun their careers in the entertainment industry and will push these issues because they understand them well," he says. But he says he is glad at the passion he sees in most of the upcoming artistes since the rules of the game have changed and this means musicians will have to work twice as hard to make it in the industry.