Letlhakane — Botswana Defence Force ( BDF) pilot, Major Cliff Manyuni, whose fighter jet crashed at the Gaborone Golf Course last Friday will be buried at Rakops, his home village tomorrow morning. Family and friends have described the late Major Manyuni as a trusted decision maker whom elderly people looked up to for advice. Major Manyuni, who met his death on the eve of the BDF 41st anniversary celebrations day, has been described as a real soldier who was passionate about his job. His cousin, Ms Eva Nsiiwa, said Cliff would not only look consider himself when making a decision, but would consider how that decision would impact on other people. "You could really trust him when it came to decision making," she added. Ms Nsiiwa, who grew up with the deceased said Manyuni was a person full of adrenaline; he would do anything he was determined to do. He earned a lot of respect from family members. He was a fatherly figure and brought peace to the family. He was a very patriotic citizen who would not allow people to talk-ill about his country. Ms Nsiiwa also indicated that the decision Cliff took about his jet showed how considerate he was that he decided to save the lives of many. The nation has lost an asset in him, and what has to be done is to celebrate his life since that is what he would have wanted. His uncle, Mr Gaotlhobogwe Dihawa said his nephew was a very mature person and very disciplined, adding that his relatives were dependent on him for guidance. Mr Dihawa noted that whenever he was home he visited him and was a very knowledgeable man who possessed a unique skill of connecting families. "His parents were dependent on him as a family advisor," he added. The mother to his children, Ms Thutego Sebego, said Manyuni was born to love as he would put other people before him. "Our kids had everything they ever needed," she said. His friend, Mr Brink Olebile described Major Manyuni as a selfless and very supportive person. He was full of life and loved people, brought laughter to all as he was fond of passing jokes. He liked music and dancing. He leaves behind two children. Source : BOPA