Kampala — Four-time presidential challenger Kizza Besigye has said electoral reforms recommended in the European Union Election Follow-up Mission (EU EFM) report to Uganda will not be implemented as long as President Museveni still "dictates" how elections are conducted. "Mr Museveni will do everything to frustrate any change in the legal or administrative regime that detracts from the order he believes in. If a legal or administrative regime contrary to his beliefs/interests is, somehow, enacted, he will ignore or violate it with impunity," Dr Besigye said at the weekend. He was responding to the EU EFM report that was released last month following the observers' assessment of the country two years after the 2016 General Election. The EU follow-up mission was in the country between February 27 and March 17, assessing how far Uganda has implemented its report on the elections. Concerns The observers noted that the government had delayed to make electoral reforms, institute a constitutional review commission. Government on May 5 instead accused the observers of "bias". "Are they planning for this government or we plan for ourselves? All the recommendations of the EU Observer Mission and Supreme Court [election petition ruling] can be implemented at the time we see it right for them," Col Shaban Bantariza, the deputy spokesperson of Uganda Media Centre, said. Col Bantariza said government was in the process of tabling a raft of electoral reform proposals in Parliament. He said: "The EU should not come to audit us or query what we have done or not done. Many of the recommendations require a lot of money to implement and it is up to the government to handle one by one or all." Dr Besigye says with government officials not respecting what is in the report, there is no hope that such reforms recommended by the EU-EFM are achievable because of the "impunity" of the state. "Mr Museveni (NRM) will do everything to frustrate any change in the legal or administrative regime that detracts from the order he believes in. If a legal or administrative regime contrary to his beliefs/interests is, somehow, enacted, he'll ignore or violate it with impunity," Dr Besigye said in a reply to our email enquiries. President Museveni, he said, does not view NRM as a political party and so; it is inseparable from the state. "Therefore, Mr Museveni doesn't believe in 'separation of powers' of government; executive, legislature and judiciary. Much less into state and non-state institutions. Consequently, he doesn't believe in the 'rule of law'; he's the law, or at very least, he's not subject to law," he said. Col Bantariza said the government is in the process of tabling in Parliament a raft of electoral reform proposals.