Police have arrested a couple suspected to be financiers and logistical operatives for the al-Shabaab terror group. Yassin Abdille Hussein aka Abu Sumeiya and his wife Fartun Mohammed Guleid were arrested in Eastleigh, Nairobi. The two are also believed to be accomplices of a key al-Shabaab operative in Mandera, Abdiweli Mohamed Guleid alias Abdiweli Kamaure. Kamaure is the mastermind behind the November 2014 Mandera bus attack where the militants killed all the non-Muslims on board the Mandera-bound bus. The couple, from the Marehan clan, emigrated from Gedo region in Somalia and has been operating in Kenya using fake documents. Police reports indicate that the two have various businesses whose finances are channelled to support al Shabaab activities. The 42-year-old Hussein is a contractor who mainly operates his renovation trade in South B and parts of Eastleigh. His wife Fartun Mohammed Guleid, 41, is a sister to Kamaure. An inquiry into how they were able to open businesses and operate in the country under false documentation is still ongoing. Initial reports confirm that the two have been channeling funds to Kamaure for over five years now. Police said Kamaure joined al Shabaab in 2007 and is currently the deputy Governor of Gedo Region serving under al Shabaab head Sheikh Abdirahman Fillow. He is said to be instrumental in the coordination of attacks by Alshabaab in Bulla-Hawa, Mandera and along the border of Mandera and Somalia. He also also believed to be behind the deployment of militants to kill teachers and quarry workers in Mandera County. Kamaure has also been in charge of some of the attacks by the group in Wajir. Five wanted terrorists from Wajir identified through a police press statement last week are said to be operating under Kamaure's command. They are Kullow Yarrow Abdi, Mohamed Ahmed Yarrow, Ahmed Dabar, Mohamed Mohamud Abdullahi and Adan Yussuf Sheikh. Kamaure is also in charge of a recruitment cell that preys on disillusioned youth from Mandera and Wajir Counties. He radicalizes them and facilitates their travel to Somalia for training and thereafter their return to the country where they carry out attacks. Their targets include security Installations and vehicles and other critical infrastructure in the North Eastern and Coastal region. Security agencies are urging the public to volunteer information that will lead to the arrest of these individuals. The security agencies have also expressed delight at the quick action of local leaders and the public for their commitment to the fight against terrorism in the country. They also indicated that they are closing in on the suspects who are still in hiding and urged the public to volunteer any further information that will lead to their arrest.