A photo of the daughter of the late gospel singer Angela Chibalonza's has stirred up tender feelings among Kenyan netizens. Apostle Francis Musili of ATG church on Saturday shared a photo of Chibalonza's husband Elisha Muliri with his 11-year-old daughter Wonder Glory. The two were guests at Apostle Musili's launch of a new branch in Nairobi. During the event, Muliri narrated his struggles in raising a daughter who was only nine-months-old when her mother died. "Bishop Muliri said he couldn't count the many times he suckled her daughter to make her feel her mother's presence. 'When my wife Angela died in 2007 in a grisly road accident in Naivasha, Wonder would cry for her mum and me too cry for my wife and amidst all these tears, I would suckle her to sooth her to sleep, it was really touching,'" Musili wrote. The Apostle uploaded a photo of Muliri and Wonder taken during the event. The photo has been shared widely with users commenting how big Wonder has grown. Phoebe Clarencie commented, "God is wonderful, she has really grown ... may God continue to bless them." Michael N. Wambua wrote, "It was such a big lose and a shock when we lost Angela Chibalonza not only to the man of God but to her music ministry fans. I remember I was in form two and although I didnt know her so much I could sense the quiver her sudden death sent countrywide and the gap she left. Even today nobody has stood in her place in the gospel music industry. Be comforted man of God because we didn't really loose but Jesus snatched away what was rightfully His from us. One day we shall behold her and once again enjoy being together as we all sing in unison with the heavenly angels." Evelyn Natasha stated, "Wonder is so big now! May the Almighty God always be with her." Lilian Tala commented, "I remember your family bishop am happy to see Gloria growing in the Lord, you came to our church in Msa when Angela was expecting her Wonder." Zipporah Pat wrote, "There's a faithful God in Heaven... Young Wonder, you shall be the voice to your generation."