A lively choir, beautiful renditions, synchronised dances and a taste of Kenyan patriotic songs were the highlight of cultural performances in South Africa, where the State House Choir staged a series of shows in Pretoria, Johannesburg and Swaziland. The eight-day cultural trip began on April 25 and ended on May 2, with performances of Gospel music, Contemporary music, Kenyan Patriotic music, Folk arrangement and Zilizopendwa (Adaptations of old time tunes). Directed by maestro June Ogolla, the choir entertained audiences with numbers such as Kenya "Hakuna Matata" as well as "Kenya Nchi Yetu". The choir was invited to South Africa by the Kenyan High Commission and it also visited Kenyans in Swaziland. The aim of the visit is to enhance global intercultural dialogue and promote Brand Kenya, says choir director Ogolla. "We presented a rendition of gospel, patriotic entertainment and other South African tunes," says Mr Ogolla. On April 28, the State House Choir performed alongside the 52-member Soweto Gospel Choir, which was formed to celebrate the unique and inspirational power of African Gospel music. The performance was enhanced by an exciting four-piece band and percussion section. VIBRANT PERFORMANCE They performance was marked by evocative sounds, energetic dancing, and vibrant, colourful costumes. Singing in six of South Africa's 11 official languages, the young dynamic choir performs both traditional and contemporary music, adding their own unique feel and interpretation to both. The State House Choir also visited Mandela Square in Sandton and Mandela House in Soweto, after which they travelled to Swaziland (The Kingdom of eSwazini) to join in the 50-50 celebration in which they performed as a Guest Choir of the State. The State House Choir, based at State House, Nairobi, was established in February 2010 with an aim of giving the staff and workers from other Government departments a chance to share in the creative music experience. The choir is currently under the patronage of President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. It is made up of 80 talented singers, who, despite their busy schedules, meet for rehearsals on Mondays and Wednesdays from 5- 7pm at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC). Mr Ogolla is a prolific composer and conductor of music, who also works at State House, Nairobi. He manages the day-to-day affairs of the choir with the help of other talented teachers, music trainers and a steering committee. The choir has a well-established and performance oriented code of conduct that enhances the musical, spiritual and intellectual growth of its members. This has made the choir unleash exemplary performances on short notice and whenever called upon, Mr Ogolla tells the Nation. With a very clear vision of fostering national unity through music as a form of art, the choir performs a wide repertoire of music for educational, entertainment and historical purposes.