Private security guards will soon be issued with guns as part of a new strategy to fight crime and complement police officers. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i announced the plan on Thursday, a month after the National Security Advisory Committee approved the proposal to arm guards. The plan will, however, only take effect when the formulation of regulations that will guide the process is completed by the Private Security Regulatory Authority. CASH IN TRANSIT Already, Mr Matiang'i has proposed that private security firms take up the job of securing Cash In Transit in three months' time. This means that private security firms will have to take their staff through rigorous training on the use of guns, which will be a new requirement for them as they will be tasked with the responsibility of escorting cash and other valuables for various institutions and individuals. Currently, the Administration Police Service is tasked with this responsibility. Dr Matiang'i, in a session with private security firms' managers, said the issuance of guns will be a strict process that will be coordinated by the authorities. Currently, the Firearms Licensing Board is charged with this task. "The government will issue gun licences to vetted companies who will, in turn, arm their personnel to conduct their businesses," said the CS. He asked them to prepare for additional responsibilities and ensure they are equipped with the laws that pertain to ownership and use of firearms. He warned that firms which go against the set rules and regulations will have their licences revoked. WELFARE OF GUARDS The CS directed the Private Security Regulatory Authority to start work immediately and also ensure the welfare of the guards is looked into. "We are in the process of creating a centralised data of all guards in the country so that their activities and tasks are well coordinated. We also want them to have similar uniform and a specified identification document," he said. The Interior ministry announced after the approval of the proposal that it was developing a training manual for the security firms to equip them with the basics of gun handling, maintenance and use. Unions of private guards have been requesting the government to fast-track the issuance of guns to them in order to help them protect their lives and the properties they are mandated to guard. Several guards have in the past been attacked and killed by thugs and the move by the ministry in charge of security will be a great win for them.